[8732-58] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: By doesn't it.
TEXT> But all that aside,  that was one of the many cogs that started to turn the process. And now we're talking about pre-K to 12 and  going on the curriculum website, which is still being built, but you're now having very clear the essential skills and also the, the measurements of every,  every three months or so, which  through I ready and through the discussions that we're going to have publicly about  how our students are responding and how we are responding to them, it's not going to be an overnight or. But that work is alive and well, and it's a PK to 12 initiative.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's good work. And. Oh yes, I.

[8732-117] Mike Siri | Candidate for the board vacancy, retired Stevens math teacher (self-ID | 2016-11-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: So preparing students for college or and giving them the tools to compete in today's job market are one of our top priorities. What do you do to increase and improve student readiness?
TEXT> Well, I think it has to start very early, for one thing.  And again, I'm probably going to talk a lot about the subject that I taught, especially,  but I think the things that I say about mathematics can equally be said about other subject areas. You can't learn math unless you think you can learn math. And when we have kids that come to school and they, you know, some of our homeless children, some of our kids that come from very dysfunctional homes, and  I would tend to think there are probably more of those than we think. When they're not sure whether daddy's going to be angry with mommy tonight or not. Trying to teach the subject at hand is very, very difficult. And so there needs to be some kind of a safety net or a almost like a guardianship of our children at a very early level, in order that they can actually understand the subjects that we're teaching them. That also includes making sure that they're fed, making sure that they have proper clothing, making sure that, you know, their medical needs are met, and so on and so forth. So that would involve  outreach to other community agencies that can help our children. So it's a really, you know, I mean, I hesitate to say this because I'm not I don't want to be political, but, you know, it really is true that it takes a village to raise a child.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So, Mike, what would you do as a school board member to strengthen the parent involvement in the Claremont School District?

[8732-130] Mike Siri | Candidate for the board vacancy, retired Stevens math teacher (self-ID | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Oh.
TEXT> Well, policy. You know that everything that has ever been said is this is a body. A governing body which deals with policies, not the day to day teaching of the children,  but how those schools are going to be operated, providing the funding that we need to make sure that they're done well and communicating to the public what has been done and what we need to do.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'll go jump. Now, my question is a. Yeah. How about it? You want it cool. Do you?

[8732-155] Mike Siri | Candidate for the board vacancy, retired Stevens math teacher (self-ID | 2016-11-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: And what what what is your vision for the Claremont School District five years from now?
TEXT> Five years from now, I'd like to have better budgets for people to deal with. I would like to have a  high level of two way communication.  Teacher to board, and vice versa. And I would like to see our students, and I think they would, given those two issues. I would like to see our students,  all students being very successful as they go through the system.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Great. Thank you.

[8732-159] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Evening.
TEXT> And thanks for the. Opportunity. To come in and talk to you about the  vacancy on the board. I'm very interested. And I took a evening. Out. Of my special time with my children to be here, because it's important to me. And I wanted to relate to you how important it is. So a little bit about me. I'm Doctor Alex Herzog. I have a doctorate in educational leadership from the University of Nevada, Las Vegas School Rebels,  and I am currently the vice president for student affairs and community affairs at River Valley Community College. I've got about 20 years in higher education experience in various positions, mostly in student services and helping students outside of the classroom. And when we talked about the skills needed today for young people today, it's those skills that they can get outside of the classroom that was co-curricular skills that usually help them keep a job while the the classroom skills that they get in the classroom are the ones that help them get it. My family lives here with me, my married to my wife Shawn, who's a K through eight teacher by trade. So I've put up more than my share of classrooms and taken them down in my lifetime. That's just the responsibility of any husband of a teacher. I have two kids invested in, so I'm a little invested in the community here.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I have two kids in the school system, one at the middle school and one at Maple Avenue. And I'm relatively new to Claremont. We just moved here in July,

[8732-160] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Alex Herzog: teacher by trade. So I've put up more than my share of classrooms and taken them down in my lifetime. That's just the responsibility of any husband of a teacher. I have two kids invested in, so I'm a little invested in the community here.
TEXT> I have two kids in the school system, one at the middle school and one at Maple Avenue.  And I'm relatively new to Claremont. We just moved here in July, but I'm not new to the area. I grew up in Glens Falls, New York and upstate New York. So I'm I'm within the area, and I'm only about 100 miles from where I grew up, where my parents still live. And that was a big motivation to bring my family back to the New England area and active in scouting. And I've also I'm a veteran former military. I was a drill sergeant, and then I later I got my commission in the Army Corps of Engineers. So why choose me? We have great candidates, and just being out there chatting with them, you get to appreciate them more. But like I said, I'm vested in the community and I'm vested in the I have two kids in the system, and I believe what we want to offer is the greatest opportunities we can for our children in this community. And I think I can help with those decisions that the board needs to make. I have some great leadership experiences throughout my career,  and since coming to Claremont, I've attended many of the activities that the schools put on.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I've been engaged. I also have the green Dot training this Friday that I'm going to be a part of, but not just at the communities I lived in. I

[8732-161] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Alex Herzog: our children in this community. And I think I can help with those decisions that the board needs to make. I have some great leadership experiences throughout my career, and since coming to Claremont, I've attended many of the activities that the schools put on.
TEXT> I've been engaged. I also have the green Dot training this Friday that I'm going to be a part of, but not just at the communities I lived in. I lived in Nevada, Utah and Arizona. In higher education, if you want to move up, you have to be willing to move around. And in those communities, I worked at different colleges and universities and was also very active in the elementary schools. All my kids were involved, as well as working with civic organizations to raise money for our schools there. In summary, I just want to share with you that I believe that what we should be doing as a board is to provide the best educational opportunities we can, because the children of this community are really our future. And I think that's where our investments in should lie. I'm a parent. I'm an effective leader with strong leadership skills, good experiences and have experience in managing budgets, creating policy. And I look at data when we need to make decisions and make the best decisions we can. I'm passionate about education. I've put over 20 years of my life to be there. Many people, when I say I was a drill sergeant at one time, you think of the, yelling kind and they do that.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Some drill sergeants yell, but their teachers, their teachers, and what they're teaching is the culture of that of the military at that time. So thank you. And I'm open

[8732-165] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: What do you believe to be the most pressing problems facing the Claremont School District?
TEXT> Great question. I think there's a couple of things.  I talked to my  son about this and my daughter too. So my daughter has a 501 plan where she has a nut allergy. So students are coming with two campuses to the to the schools with different concerns, different problems. And it's an individual thing that we need to address that being one issue. The other one is truancy, keeping students engaged and keeping them in school. I think that those are the things that we've got to think about. How do we engage them more and how do we keep them in the schools and learning? To me, my experience is in colleges. It's about students have an individual success plan. What does it take to get them through the classes, and what did they gain from those classes? And each student has a different idea of what that success means.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So preparing.

[8732-168] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Chris Irish: Students for college and or giving them the tools to compete in today's job markets. One of our top priorities. What would you do to increase and improve student readiness?
TEXT> Well, I think I would work with the board to take a look at our policies and procedures. One of the things I think is important that we work as a team and look at these goals together. Maybe work with teachers and the principals and providing what opportunities there were in my experiences, what I've seen elsewhere, what could work, and having great dialog about these things, that we can provide solutions. None of us is as smart as all of us. And we can provide some great ideas and problem solving if we all work together and brainstorm and see what are the best things we can do to make those fixes. And also engage the faculty because our students and the students, for that matter, asking them those questions might be they might have really good answers for us. So talking to the community, talking to your students and talking to the teachers. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: What would you do to strengthen parent parental involvement in the schools?

[8732-182] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: What's your vision for the Claremont School District five years from now?
TEXT> For one, maybe exceeding the goals that are already set. I would love to see us take a look at our high school students. And you know, we have River Valley as an open enrollment institution. And so everybody applies gets accepted. And I think that is an excellent opportunity. So seeing some more bridges passed between that and the high schools today, we had an excellent event where we invited a lot of high school students to our campus and had an opportunity to speak to them and talk to them and talk about what the future holds. And did they get something out of it? A lot more partnerships and bridges so that we can all work together as a team. I it's hard for me to sometimes think about that because I'm a visionary of sorts in what I do. But sometimes I say, you know, I want everybody to graduate. We're going to have 100%, no truancy at that point. But sometimes that's not a reality because our kids come from different backgrounds, and sometimes we have to think about the hardships that they're enduring. And how do we  find those little obstacles that are keeping them from being successful in school and removing those obstacles in any way we can?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Do you like to make a closing statement, or do you have any questions for us?

[8732-203] Richard Seaman | Former board member and candidate for the vacancy, withdraws his candi | 2016-11-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: So.
TEXT> For my opening statement, I think everyone probably is aware of my involvement on the school board before and complete and total commitment to the fact the most important thing that we can do is, citizens of Claremont and residents of Claremont is educate our children.  So, the time and the investment is absolutely critical  for those that are on the board. And thank you all for doing it. What I'd like to do beyond that is just as I've been thinking down through my schedule and what's going on. As you know, I work in the school system over in Woodstock, and we're in the midst of some things there and just evaluating my time. What I'd like to do, if I could is actually withdraw  my application for this. You know, just in talking with the with the other people here. And it's absolutely wonderful to have gotten four people who have applied for one position. There was a time in the past where we didn't get people were applying for open positions. So if it's all right by the board, I'd like to withdraw my application for this and continue to be involved in the strategic planning effort, continue to be involved in any other area as needed. But if that's okay, I would appreciate it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you for.

[8732-230] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: the communication and maybe, figure out a way how to get more people here, figure out a way how to listen to people when they do come here, figure out a way how to just, validate fears and concerns, whether you believe them or not.
TEXT> I think I think the school board has a huge role, and it reminds me almost of parenting. Like you're you're expected to be the everything to everybody. And, it's the same role that teachers have. They're expected to be that everything to everybody. So,  I just think it's important to start for this school board right now to start bridging the gap between the board and the community, and to start thinking about ways to better take care of their teachers. And I'm not saying that teachers are not taking care of that's not what I'm implying at all. But to be a good parent, you have to be able to take care of yourself. To be a good teacher, you have to be able to take care of yourself so that you can take care of your students or your your children. So I'd love to see some sort of I just love to see people here, you know, all the people who have stuff to say all the time. I'd love to see them here, and I'd love to see a conversation with school board members in the community, a real one, because nothing's going to get better without that, in my opinion. And I'm not a professor or a businessman like those people out there. So I'm just a mom. What else? You got anything?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Do you plan to run in March?

[8732-236] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Marion: So if you were to be given this role, what steps would you take to ensure your dedication.
TEXT> To ensure my dedication to the school board?  Well, first and foremost, I would have to ensure my husband's dedication to covering the kids on school board meeting nights. I don't know. I think it's I think it's important when you are a part of anything to, have the mindset, like you're going into a team meeting at school, you know, when when you're meeting with colleagues at school and you're discussing a student, it's it's a Vegas session. You don't leave that and go share, all of your information with the person down the hall, in the cafeteria or in the staff room. I just think it's important to be dedicated to the people you're working with. I think it's important to be trustworthy. I think it's important to be able to trust the people that you're working with. I think it's important to be dedicated to being transparent, because this is a board that, you know, doesn't answer to the community, but the community sees. So when you stop being transparent with things, it causes distrust. So I think it's important to be transparent. If you're going to be dedicated to something. I think it's important to be honest.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That's something I work on a lot to is not being so blunt, but being a little bit nicer. I think it's important to be honest and kind. I think

[8732-237] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: you know, doesn't answer to the community, but the community sees. So when you stop being transparent with things, it causes distrust. So I think it's important to be transparent. If you're going to be dedicated to something. I think it's important to be honest.
TEXT> That's something I work on a lot to is not being so blunt, but being a little bit nicer. I think it's important to be honest and kind. I think it's important to be compassionate and, validate how other people are feeling when they're the people that you're working with. Even if you can't stand what they're saying or you can't stand them, I think it's still important to be dedicated to the cause, which is moving forward and bringing people together and doing better for students in the community. Did that answer that? That was long winded. Sorry, honey.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: If you could create a job description for a school board member, what would you consider the three most important items?

[8732-244] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: poverty. We did a lot with that back in the day. And I think it really needs to come back because you learn something and then it goes away and you stop thinking about it. And it's really important to refresh on so many things.
TEXT> I think it's important for this community to, put initiatives in place, like, I know we have free breakfast and all of that, but I think it's important, again, to look further, than just the food part, which we kind of get stuck on, if that makes any sense at all. I'd really like to just see more more wrap around in five years. I would love to see this district address all the needs of the students, because in reality, parents have less time to spend with their children. We all can agree that we're not their parents, but we we take on that role. We really do as educators. So I think it's important that we know how to address the emotional address, the physical address, the behavioral address,  you know, the trauma address, all of those things. And I think that that's one of the things that's left out the most in most school districts right now. But we we better start getting with the times because it's changing.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I think that answered nine two.

[8732-250] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Michelle Pierce, Ward one' seg | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: I, I don't want to do just that.
TEXT> I think that you're going fair to Midland. I think that we need a lot of work. I think that anything needs work when it's worth it. The fact that you've touched on probably the one most important fact that I hope to hear tonight out of any candidate is the emotional side  or the whole child, which is what I think that we're coming to looking at finally, is, is that it's not just  the curriculum any longer. It's how do we train our staff, how do we train ourselves? How do we train even our children  to deal with the whole person instead of just the educational side? So I'm quite impressed that you seem to press a lot on that. And I think that there are really great things that are going to happen moving forward, the training. But I do believe that before. I believe before anything, that we're going to have to look at teachers and, and, you know, having better salaries and that requires taxes being raised and that requires pretty much being loathed and hated by,  you know,  the general community. However, how are we ever going to put our, our quality there  or even anything if we can't move? And  they are doing lots.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Corey LeClaire and Doctor Goodwin have done fabulous at finding different grants and just different things that are making it better. And so there's lots of I mean, you know,

[8732-286] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: I don't have any,
TEXT> Exception to including Mary, and she did participate. The board does have the right to and I think it's important that the board does listen to a student who represents students. It's not about Mary Ann Lovett. It's about students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[8732-317] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (uncertain - identified by the busin | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah, okay, I would.
TEXT> I'll, based on the the very deliberate, very, very. Deliberately deliberative conversation we just had in there and with three very, very good candidates, it was a really hard choice. And it's a good choice to have to make. But it was it was really great. And I wasn't kidding when I hoped to see the other two on a on a ballot come March. But, on behalf of the board, I'll make the motion that we appoint, Alex to fill the seat until March 2nd.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any further discussion? All in favor?

[8732-368] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: That easy.
TEXT> Marion, on behalf of the board, I want to thank you for your your input. Thank you for the time. It was very, very good to have. Have you in there? Exchanging ideas and, actually contributing a in a very, very meaningful way. So thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Mary. All right.

[8732-380] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yes, please.
TEXT> You approved having an early release day tomorrow. We did not publicize. It that last month. You did? We did not publicize it because we were waiting to hear from. I ready, the company that you had a presentation on last month, and it was critical that the staff had the professional development so they can maximize the data, which is all about students and how we respond to those students. That being said, with less than a week's notice, we had confirmation last week. We had confirmation. In my view, it would be unfair to the parents to give them such short  notice about a a early release day. So I would request that we change that day from November 3rd to Tuesday, November 22nd. Now, that is the last day of school before the Thanksgiving vacation. So the way it would occur is that Stevens High School would be dismissed at 1050. The middle school alumni clock does not bluff in Maple Lab at 12 noon. A modified instructional schedule would be created, including student being served lunch, and the high school and middle school would have training 1130, the 230 and the three elementary school staff 1230 to 330. I know it's just two days before Thanksgiving, but the reality is we've lost a window of opportunity. And so I ready is ready to  provide that professional development.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And I would request that Tuesday, November 22nd, be an early release day. Being on the cusp of Thanksgiving break, I don't think it's going to be that much of

[8732-390] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> And I think it's important, similar to the parents, that our faculty be given plenty of time and start to plan for that. This is all about supporting teachers and maximizing the impact of direction. We're going with our students and our staff, and we need that training.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I guess I'm obviously going to support this. I just want to be sure that with parent teacher conferences coming up, how is that going to affect, dispersing this information

[8732-556] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (says 'when I was the principal of Steve | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Going with it. Can I just.
TEXT> Just want to clarify that about my knowledge of catastrophic aid, for example, a our own building doesn't solve that. For example, if we have a student who moves to the district who requires an hour to accompany them. So you have to pay in our end to be in this person's, they can be in, they can be in the regular school, but you still have to pay that person so that that's an unexpected huge expense. So  and there are some students when, when Chris was here that night, Chris Beza was here, I asked him the question, if we brought all of those kids back, would it cost us more to provide for their individual needs here than where they are? And the answer to that question is yes, because some of those students needs are so intense, right?
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: We never be able to bring them all back.

[8761-25] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: here just recently we've, within the last three months been assessing this list and it's now grown to 21. Claremont is still on this list, but Claremont has long since been a very high risk community for elevated blood leads and childhood lead poisoning prevented.
TEXT> So tonight, I'm going to talk to you a little bit about the history of lead poisoning. So you kind of have to understand how we got in this mess in the first place. I'm going to talk to you about some of the sources of exposure. How are New Hampshire's children being poisoned and what's the impact on their brain? I'm going to talk to you about the long term consequences and the costs and the burdens to our communities and to our school systems. And I'll talk to you about New Hampshire's extremely low testing rates. Children should be tested in universal communities, such at Claremont. All children should be tested in Claremont at age one and age two. And that's not happening in Claremont at the rate that it should. Nor is it happening across our state. And I'll talk to you about both federal legislation, federal law, the EPA's are renovate, repair, renovate, repair, paint law.  I'll also talk to you about recent legislation in New Hampshire. Senate Bill 135, signed by Governor Hassan about a year and a half ago, as well as draft legislation that Senator Felton will be introducing in January, that you have a copy of the latter two having significant impact on this issue.
NEXT> Gail Gans: So before I dive into New Hampshire's statistics, I want to show you a video clip from this documentary called misled. It's about to be released in December, and Division

[8761-28] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes voices in the lead-poisoning documentary  | 2016-11-15
PREV> Guy Santagate: We can't see it.
TEXT> There are no direct, obvious symptom. Her stomach was bothered her she would be. I got a call right back. Jayla needs to be checked into hospital. They really are. No medical treatments, violent. Behavior like deficits. Problems with ADHD. Because brain damage head over the car. It's totally preventable when it happens is irreversible. It's untreatable. This is a national scandal and nobody seems to know about it. My children were poisoned when we did home renovation and hired a contractor we didn't know that he wasn't using Wednesday morning because this is an open plan porch during the exterior, paint the funerals and it's poisoned. Getting high levels of blood test results. The apartment failed. And the town or state or anybody get concerned about it. And I feel like. My whole world's contaminated. I thought he was okay because I wasn't living in a house that was being sanded. This perfect child, my firstborn son, will just never be the same and there's nothing I can do about it. The children tests positive. Both of them did. I'm quite crying because I don't know if I can help you and I want to be able to hold. My son was, you know, was. This amount of contaminated  household dust with lead based paint or cause childhood like poisoning? What I'm finding is that it's actually middle and upper income families that are getting poisoned now, and that these families aren't being tested. Who's the bad guy here?
NEXT> Unidentified: Definitely the lead industry. Dust from paint been identified from early on as a major problem through lobbying and government corruption. Just keep it quiet. So we're doing free blood

[8761-36] Unidentified | Unidentified - voices in the documentary and YouTube video clips playe | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: book for boys and girls. Just going to show you a small clip, but it gives you the best tragic little story. It's a YouTube video, so it can start with an ad. I never know what ad it might be, so bear with me.
TEXT> This is my goals are to be fails. They give away these little informative booklets about how wonderful lead paint was. A magical trip peatland with the Dutch boy painter. There are children flying to their doom. I mean flying to paint land. And how did the Dutch boy conquer Old Man Gloom? He conquered it with wait, wait wait, that's his one flat land. Wait, you mean like paint for kids? You know that's bad, right? And how bad was led?  LED was recognized to kill the children in the early 1900s. So to counter this, the company called the National League Company, thought our paint is 91% lead, pure lead. We're going to knock out our entire paint business. What should we do? They decided, let's come up with a logo instead of national level and call it Dutch Boy Paint. Let's use children as our logo to say how you are and wonderful. Let's show children using our paint. Here's what's for my grandmother's school, where she taught grades one through three. It was like a small school house with a few rooms and they dropped off these, pretending for these to be given to children to take home or to play with a paper for boys and girls.
NEXT> Unidentified: What were they promoting? Ducks LED paint. There's a valuable coupon in the middle of this book. Be sure to give it to your father or mother. This is copyright

[8761-42] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: sure the child is getting the additional medical tests, and is kind of the go between between the pediatrician and the child's family. And we also send out a lead inspector, the test the environment for lead test the paint. We also test the water.
TEXT> We've never had a detection of lead in the water with the children. Have the elevated blood leads. And if the hazards are determined to be in the apartment, then the apartment goes under order, which means the landlord is required to do abatement to remove the hazards from the apartment. But that's not until the blood lead goes to ten. Currently, with our rules based on the old standard. So how much lead does it take to poison a child? When I train parents, this is a little muffin cup and I have sugar in this muffin cup. I have parents wet their fingers and show them that this is how much lead paint dust we're talking about, that if this much lead paint dust is sprinkled in your apartment or your home or your child's crawling. That's what we're talking about. That will poison your child. It is highly, highly toxic. And once it goes in the child's mouth and through their brain, because they have no filter, the damage is irreversible. There is no cure and there is no treatment. This is a poster we have. And I put in eight and a half by 11 in your packet. It's a pretty powerful message. So to take you back to high school biology for a minute only so I can level set so you can understand the damage that it does. We want in a child's brain to have lots of big, beautiful neurons.
NEXT> Gail Gans: And we want insulation, the myelination that looks like those red hot dogs moving along the axon. So the electrical impulses moves seamlessly from one neuron to another. And between

[8761-48] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: in gasoline and then took it out. So we were all part of this social experiment. The green line represents the average lead level blood lead levels in preschool children, reflecting from when we put gas in lead in gas and then took it out.
TEXT> And the blue line is violent crimes per 100,000. And they they mirror or they duplicate each other. It's unusual that you can see blood leads go up. Violent crime goes up. Blood leads come down. Violent crime goes down. And this is another study. This happens to be a British study looking about the number of leading gasoline versus violent crime. So there's significant impact not only to the children themselves, but to our communities and to society. So how are children in New Hampshire getting poisoned? 60% of our housing in New Hampshire was built before lead was banned in residential paint. And in some communities that statistic is higher. So children have a 60% chance of being in a home, apartment, school, child care center, grandmother's house somewhere where there's deteriorating lead paint. They're being poisoned by friction surfaces. Just opening and closing a window or opening and closing a door. That rubbing that friction surface will generate enough of that lead. Paint dust. Rental properties that are not well maintained. Lead in the soil. Lead passing from mother to fetus. Do it yourself. Renovators that don't know about lead paint or how to work safely with it.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Contractors that are not are certified. And a good thing to know in general in your community is 1 in 3 children who are poisoned have had renovations somewhere in

[8761-49] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: that friction surface will generate enough of that lead. Paint dust. Rental properties that are not well maintained. Lead in the soil. Lead passing from mother to fetus. Do it yourself. Renovators that don't know about lead paint or how to work safely with it.
TEXT> Contractors that are not are certified. And a good thing to know in general in your community is 1 in 3 children who are poisoned have had renovations somewhere in their life in the last six months. So 33% of our children are poisoned in an environment where there have been renovations in the last six months. So when I train pediatricians and nurse practitioners, I'm always educating them when they talk to their families. This is a question to be asking. Are there renovations going on? So these are friction surfaces.  Walk up these stairs. Where through the paint. Bring your shoes in the house. You carry in the lead paint dust. This building has a new door, but you can see the paint chipping and the dust that goes into the apartment or house every time the door opens. Just opening and closing the window will generate the dust that can come into the room. And children love to put their hands and look out the window, or put their hands on the window sill. And if they're teething, they may in fact bite the window sill.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Almost always, if we find lead on the exterior of the house. 5060 years of scraping, painting, weathering, ice storms that lead goes into the soil. Almost always the soil

[8761-54] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: And then they bring children through the work site. So it's very unfortunate that we have this cable station that is extremely popular, modeling all the wrong things for our families. So how are we doing in New Hampshire? Our statistics are not so great.
TEXT> As I mentioned, we have between 800 and 1000 poisonings every year, twice the national average. In the 2014 surveillance report,  blood lead surveillance report, which is done every year by Division of Public Health. 37% of the children in New Hampshire schools that had been tested. And you'll soon find out that's highly under-reported. But between first grade and 12th. 37% had had an elevated blood lead, or may still have an elevated blood lead at some point in their lives. 37% and 15% of the five year olds that year who would be going into kindergarten had an elevated blood lead. So American Academy of Pediatrics recommends their guidelines are that children should be tested at age one and age two to have their blood lead level tested. And it makes sense. It's the target time that they're most at risk for exposure. That's the American Academy of Pediatrics guidelines. Unless the states have a different set of guidelines. So in New Hampshire, we have a slightly different set of guidelines. This sheet is in your packet. We use a universal and a targeted approach. Claremont is a universal community. A universal community such as Concord you means high risk community. All children who live there should be tested at one and two. No questions asked. Targeted community means a pediatrician can still test all children at wanting to, or they can use a screening guidelines.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Couple quick questions how old is your house? Your apartment? Are there renovations? Has anyone had an elevated blood lead in the family? A couple quick screening questions to determine

[8761-55] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: universal community such as Concord you means high risk community. All children who live there should be tested at one and two. No questions asked. Targeted community means a pediatrician can still test all children at wanting to, or they can use a screening guidelines.
TEXT> Couple quick questions how old is your house? Your apartment? Are there renovations? Has anyone had an elevated blood lead in the family? A couple quick screening questions to determine risk. The family answers yes or doesn't know they can test. So these are our really prosthetic statistics. Frightening statistics. Actually, in 2014, we had almost 20,000 children in New Hampshire that should have been tested. All the children living in universal communities.  All the children enrolled in Wickes nutrition program. All children are enrolled in Medicaid. It's federal law that children enrolled in Medicaid be tested at one and two, and all children enrolled in Head Start Division of Public Health. Put these little testing device, which I'm going to talk to you about in all of our wit clinics. They do an excellent job with testing and they test all the children and Head Start for us. So this bar graph here really represents universal communities and children enrolled in Medicaid. And in 2014, 26%  of our one year old in New Hampshire were not tested. And look at the statistic 70% of a 70% of our two year olds were not tested.
NEXT> Gail Gans: So I always put this up. This is my daughter, Catherine Aaron getting health form. I love our family provider. We're part of Capital Region Health Care Network. This is

[8761-56] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: this bar graph here really represents universal communities and children enrolled in Medicaid. And in 2014, 26% of our one year old in New Hampshire were not tested. And look at the statistic 70% of a 70% of our two year olds were not tested.
TEXT> So I always put this up. This is my daughter, Catherine Aaron getting health form.  I love our family provider. We're part of Capital Region Health Care Network. This is our immunization record. And I blew up the bottom of this form. Pediatric labs lead level required at age one and two. Because we live in Concord. That rectangle is blank. I have three daughters. I live in a historic property. None of them were ever tested, nor was I asked questions. It's just not getting done in New Hampshire the way it needs to be to protect our children. So how can we be tested? We can send them for a venous draw physician. If they even write, the requisition slip can give a slip to the parent to go to the lab to have a blood drawn. We have slightly higher compliance with that at one because children also have a hemoglobin test an iron test at that time. We have very little compliance with it. If the physician is even writing the test it to because again, the child has no outward symptoms.  So a mother or father had their two year old in the exam room for a half hour. The two year old's been running around tearing it apart. They've had immunizations and they have no outward symptoms of looking L or poisoned.
NEXT> Gail Gans: And the physician says if they even say it, go down and have a venous draw, meaning you have to pin your child down to have blood drawn. So the

[8761-61] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: the story of walking down the hall one day and turning on his heel when he hears one school nurse talking to another school nurse, and she's saying another child with an elevated blood lead, and he turns because he had never heard of this.
TEXT> He didn't know what she meant. And the long short of it, as he goes on to learn all about elevated blood leads and childhood lead poisonings, and he tells the story of getting permission to get all the medical records for all of the children in Rochester, New York's public schools,  and amongst other things, he found that 41% of the children in the special education programs in Rochester, New York, 41% of the children in special education had what, somewhat poisoned. They had elevated blood leads. 41%. The story. He goes on to work with, if you're familiar with it. University of Rochester. University of Rochester. Medical school and medical center. So amazing amount of work in the community without reach, going through and just removing lead in numerous neighborhoods, in apartments, making rental housing, lead safe, testing every child, educating families, and partnering with the medical school in the medical center. It's the story that I wish I could duplicate in numerous towns in New Hampshire. Rochester, New York, if you're not familiar with it, is an old mill town similar to what we have in New Hampshire, in Claremont and in our old mill towns. We have a lot of old rental and a lot of old mill housing. So Ralph.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Spease. Yeah. So action steps. Let's get our children tested. Educate every medical provider you know about the lead. Care to make sure there's results are reported on the health

[8761-62] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: New York, if you're not familiar with it, is an old mill town similar to what we have in New Hampshire, in Claremont and in our old mill towns. We have a lot of old rental and a lot of old mill housing. So Ralph.
TEXT> Spease. Yeah. So action steps. Let's get our children tested. Educate every medical provider you know  about the lead. Care to make sure there's results are reported on the health forms that go to child care center and to public school. Understand what leads neurobehavioral signature is and how those consequences  are long term for children and the communities understand these children are going to need developmental screenings at key points in their development, and they're going to need intervention and support specific to. The abilities that have deficits due to lead poisoning. Educate our teachers, your school nurses, your parents, your community. I look forward to coming back. Test your homes, your schools and your child care centers. Currently, New Hampshire has no regulation that requires that our child care centers be lead paint safe. Ensure that your contractors are certified when they come in  and ask for a building permit. If the house is built before 1978, ask to see their RR certification and if it's an individual homeowner.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Hand them some of the information to educate them so they can protect themselves and their children. Implement rental inspections a tenant changes and report unsafe work practices. When you

[8761-143] Carolyn Towle | City Councilor (recognized 'Yes, Carolyn' seg 275; referred to as 'cou | 2016-11-15
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Behavior issues.
TEXT> So the nurse comes in and lays out a program for what type of,  help right. For the child. Right. Can you tell me what what that is? Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh, sure. Please.

[8761-226] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Could get.
TEXT> To you again. Again. Michelle, you're sitting in front of John's name tag. So I keep, So yes. And that's another piece that we're working not only here to, to make sure our children are tested, but to make sure that it's that our hopes are testing both initially and, you know, started her pregnancy on the basic blood panel and then again at the second trimester when somebody's shedding light.
NEXT> Unidentified: But it's not like you can.

[8761-243] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: Other other.
TEXT> Other funding. Is there funding? Are there programs that would help school districts  sort of target, you know, children six and under for, you know, all the all the kids get tested.
NEXT> Peter Wright: Can I answer that?

[8761-246] Peter Wright |  | 2016-11-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: Yes.
TEXT> I don't think we need another program. Most of the kids that are six and undercover through the Chip program through Medicaid, and they pay for the test. And it's  believe it or not, one of the few tests that Medicaid pays for that actually covers the cost. So I think that if we have a collaborative effort, all we really need to do is get the people here,  we can get a machine, we're going to get one for our office. I don't know if you're contemplating one for the school, but it's really about how we get people here and then we can.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Get those. All right. And I guess that would. Be something we could work on together with with you, with the hospital coming into the schools.

[8761-249] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-11-15
PREV> Peter Wright: 100% committed to working with the city and the school to, you know, create some kind of universal public screening. This is such a big population health, public health, effort. And we know that we're a hotbed, that we're just something we have to do.
TEXT> And really, even though the the the children may be older, there's still a benefit  where it's identified and they know that their environment. Yes. Has that issue that would need to be corrected anyways.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[8761-376] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (mayor asks 'Corey, did you want to ad | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> I think that, there is the need to just have some greater communication between entities, whether it's between the two governing bodies, whether it's between the school district and Southwest community Services, whether it's between city welfare and,  you know, another entity supporting those in poverty. So I think there's some need for that communication flow to happen more. Clearly and timely and just to ensure that everybody knows what others are doing already related to this issue. From the the school side of things, I do see the need for both governing bodies. With all due respect to one, recognize that poverty is an issue in our community. Recognize the impact that that has on our school and timely in this discussion this evening, because it has an impact on our school budget as well. And, and be proactive in addressing some of these things. You know, if somebody were to ask me was the greatest issue that we were in Claremont as it relates to the schools, it always boils down to money in some way, shape or form. And so what we can do as governing bodies in this community to address those issues, to get our kids what they need to be successful, that that's kind of my take on it at this moment. Okay.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8762-31] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs agenda, votes and citizens comments | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Congratulations to. Congrats. Yeah, thanks. Great news. Any questions for our student rep. All right. Thanks. Superintendents report.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8762-35] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: 22, two.
TEXT> Thousand, I beg your pardon. You're correct. And if you look at the fifth bullet from the bottom, you can see that the schools are Berlin Middle School, Claremont Middle School, Franklin, Laconia, Lisbon, Stewart Town Community School and Whitefield Elementary Schools. So very pleased  that  we are going to be receiving support and to assist our our middle school students long before they enter high school to be more aware of the opportunities. We're also working, developing a very strong  partnership, renewing a partnership with River Valley Community College.  You're going to be hearing more of that,  and in more detail.  But we have so many wonderful resources close to us here, and it's important that our students are be given information and, and are aware of the different opportunities  along before they are juniors and seniors in high school. We don't start. We want them to be more informed. And,  and one of the challenges, of course, when you think of education after high school, training after high school is the cost. But there are different opportunities that students can access without going into horrific debt, depending upon their parents own financial situation. So we just want to have our student body be more informed or better informed and start this  in in staggered and age appropriate, great, appropriate format  before they enter Stevens High School. So more information coming.
NEXT> Unidentified: Great.

[8762-39] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: At the University of New Hampshire, 11:00 this Saturday. I was talking to Mary Leavitt before the school board meeting and asking her what's what's going on at Stevens High School, what type of spirit and discussion. And, and she said, it's really quite remarkable.
TEXT> So it's one more example of of our student athletes and also the Claremont community. As measured by the three as the academic, the arts and in this case the athletics. So the proud proud time for Claremont and  we look forward to  this great event this Saturday 11:00 down at the University of New Hampshire. And thank you. Would you like to demonstrate how that finger should be used?
NEXT> Unidentified: I don't think you want me to hear. Okay. Oh.

[8762-182] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: comments from those folks were added to the original documents. So you have and a document that has sort of captured the big ideas from the discussion that evening with also identifying what is currently working in our community and some ideas of what's needed.
TEXT> So this document will be sent to everyone who participated. We can put it up on the website for folks to share. And this will be a, a starting point for us. We are having another event. I believe the date is going to be January 12th. That is in the works as a follow up to this early childhood conversation, to continue with the asset mapping process and to continue to move that project forward. So look for those invitations soon. But if folks are interested in and what the comments were, they can they can find those in this document and we'll get those up on the website. The second piece that I wanted to talk about was the Strategic Action Plan.  We had a forum for that,  a conversation for that on November 3rd. We had another close to 50 people, I believe, in attendance that night. Again, a nice cross-section of our community  and talking about how to, you know, what does our community want to see for our schools and our students moving forward for the next five years and beyond? Again, folks requested that that information be distributed and once collated. And so we've been able to capture the the big ideas, things we want to continue, things we want to change.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Sort of under four categories. Things to build on, nurture and grow. Things we want to improve. Challenge that. Challenges that require us to work together and wishes to make

[8762-213] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Chris Irish: Involved, keep flowing with it.
TEXT> We have a lot of folks in our community who want to be involved, which is really nice. And you can see the support from our community around learning everywhere you look. If you're if you're looking for it, we have, for instance, a lunch conversation tomorrow with folks from Red River who hosted six of our students this summer in an internship program. And how can we  not only continue to promote that program and  have those ongoing internship opportunities with them, but also award them high school credit for the work that they did through an extended learning opportunity, so that it's not for not. We are in conversation with River Valley Community College  around different opportunities for our students as well. So there's many more. Those are just the two off the top of my head that are present in the next 24 hours. And so there's there's lots that we're trying to do to extend learning beyond the traditional four walls of our schools, engaging the community and making learning a community initiative, not just a school initiative. So it was sustainable.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And just one more example of what Corey is talking about. We are we're going to have a meeting with River Valley Community College and to see if we can

[8762-221] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. All right. Yeah. That was.
TEXT> I will say it was very worthwhile listening to business owners and members of the community  talking about what their needs are, talking about what they're looking for  from our students,  and how that's going to help us. Very similar to the the community conversation, help us direct and shape our our future as measured by student readiness.  So it's it's right. Corey does deserve a patent back. A lot of good things happening.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[8762-271] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anyone should discuss them all first and make amendments and accept it for a first read. You want to everyone take a look at public solicitations in the schools.
TEXT> Can I just make a statement about the group of them? A few meetings ago now I think of maybe even about two months ago now. I brought up the idea of adjusting these policies so that we can, open ourselves up to be able to engage with community businesses and organizations to better support and promote our schools. There was language in place in our existing policies that really prevented things from happening. One of the examples we used was, the policy prevented Napa from handing out footballs, toy footballs at one of our football games because of the Napa branding on them and the, advertising that that would be. And so when looking at these policies, we tried to create something that's still ultimately protected the interests of our student and our children, however,  allowed our school greater flexibility and our district greater flexibility to partner with community organizations and businesses to help move us forward, as a learning community. So they're definitely first read policies. We struggled at times with some of the language, trying to find the right language to convey what we were hoping to convey in a manner that everyone understood, not just the three. You know, the three of us in the room when we had the conversation. So, we're hoping that you will scrutinize these with the, you know, a fine lens.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And we did reference the New Hampshire School Board Association's versions of all of these, and also referenced versions of these policies and other school districts that are either in

[8762-317] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Frank.' [58] answering | 2016-11-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: Yeah. Yes. And the, the I believe the example on the school boards association is still almost verbatim the our old one. But we did look at some others and came up with this more succinct draft.
TEXT> So one day at Stevens High School the Gideons arrived. Excuse me the Gideons. And they wanted to distribute Bibles to the students.  And we because they had no prior, we had no idea they were coming. We didn't disallow them for standing out on the sidewalk, which was, and distribute them. But if if I guess what I'm wondering is we're not subject to any kind of spontaneous distributions. They still have to get permission regardless of who they are. And then you make that determination or the administration.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I think we've covered that in number four.

[8762-321] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I agree with Chris' [544]  | 2016-11-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: The administration and I consult and if I have any questions, I seek legal counsel. I want to you we clearly want to do it in the appropriate manner. And it can it can't have any bias at all.
TEXT> Of course, the one thing that we talked about, but I don't think they ever got in on, the number two, the activity is student related. We talked about adding in there or community related. My example was for years the Conservation Commission every year gives free memberships away to the Berry Conservation Camp for any student in the community that applies. I think we when I was on it, we gave away five membership. It's a week long summer vacation camp and we used to get the fliers to the school. Technically, according to policy, they weren't supposed to distribute it to the kids to take home. So that this will allow that. And that to me, is a perfect opportunity of a community thing to give, you know, kids that can't afford camp, an opportunity to go, to go to camp. But with the old policy, we couldn't do that. So.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: See, I would interpret that as student related because it's an opportunity for the students. Right. But I don't know that everybody would.

[8762-322] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Chris Irish: So that this will allow that. And that to me, is a perfect opportunity of a community thing to give, you know, kids that can't afford camp, an opportunity to go, to go to camp. But with the old policy, we couldn't do that. So.
TEXT> See, I would interpret that as student related because it's an opportunity for the students. Right. But I don't know that everybody would.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So that's what I'm thinking. Just because that's the community. It's a community because it's literally a city committee that offers it for free.

[8762-330] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member on flier-policy wording [425-441] | 2016-11-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: So just to clarify, the activity is student and or community related. Is that what you said.
TEXT> Benefit students?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: No, no. The activity benefits students.

[8762-331] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Benefit students?
TEXT> No, no. The activity benefits students.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's what I'm thinking instead of student or community related. But if there is to benefit the students. The objection to.

[8762-332] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member on flier-policy wording [425-441] | 2016-11-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: No, no. The activity benefits students.
TEXT> That's what I'm thinking instead of student or community related. But if there is to benefit the students. The objection to.
NEXT> Chris Irish: That, well, where I was going with it, it was more it wasn't so much about benefiting the student. It was where it was coming from.

[8762-333] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I agree with Chris' [544]  | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: That's what I'm thinking instead of student or community related. But if there is to benefit the students. The objection to.
TEXT> That, well, where I was going with it, it was more it wasn't so much about benefiting the student. It was where it was coming from.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Well, we did.

[8762-339] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Yeah.
TEXT> The only thing I think about in terms of benefit students is you could have something. I'm thinking the community center does a five K  that, the proceeds of the five K go to. An organization that's not necessarily benefiting students. It maybe just benefits the community. That's something because it does benefit the community. We could distribute via the students and through school messenger, but it doesn't necessarily benefit.
NEXT> Unidentified: The do something with regards.

[8762-348] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Move this forward to a second.
TEXT> If I may, just for clarity because I've, I've, I've lost you a bit. So the activity is student related. We're changing that to the activity of student or community related or the activity benefit students. I wasn't clear.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Only still trying to figure out what.

[8762-363] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Right. Okay.
TEXT> And those are the really cut and dry  lens. And the cut and dry ones are becoming few and far between. It's the complex ones of, well, we want our child to be here on these seven days out of a 21 day cycle for these times and this type of communication involved, and we want access to this curriculum.  And can I have a copy of that textbook? And so, what even three years ago was almost a non-existent portion of our work is now becoming a much  larger.
NEXT> Chris Irish: We basically now being asked to provide personal learning plans for homeschooled students. I mean, in a nutshell, that's part of what we're doing. We're participating in a personal learning

[8762-444] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: I apologize, but I am going to have to leave. It's almost. Done. That time.
TEXT> So may I go on Brian? Procedural safeguards for children with disabilities. This basically provides, a declarative statement that a child with disabilities that their parents and the children will be guaranteed they are appropriate procedural safeguards and rights,  with special education per per the code. Yes, sir.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's that's a normal part of any special ed meeting or 504 meeting where they receive the parents sign off, that they've received their procedural safeguards. There's they sign off

[8794-10] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School student representative reading the  | 2016-12-07
PREV> Chris Irish: All in favor? Opposed? Student representatives report.
TEXT> So from S.H. s  on November 17th. A number of shows. Freshman girls attended a New Hampshire High tech women ambassador day at Lebanon High School. There were six different speakers representing labs Fear Harbor, therm, D.H., MC, Thayer School of Engineering, and Timken. They were all female engineers, scientists, and researchers. The event targets ninth grade girls as a way to encourage females to consider future Stem related fields. On November 17th, SHC students were honored for their summer internships with Red River. A luncheon was held that included the students, along with Saw administration and members of the Red River organization. The luncheon was catered by our very own sugar River Valley Technical Culinary Arts students and chef. We are looking to expand this partnership and how we can support student learning and grow through this program organized by Red River students who are participating in this program were Jessie Barrel, Allison Ngum, Andrew Friend, Ashley Brown, Steven Bosniak, and Christian Page. For third year in a row, Stevens has received a $500 donation from ExxonMobil for our local mobile dealer on Pleasant Street. We would like to extend our deepest gratitude for their continued support of our programs by mobile. This year's check will go to the science department to purchase additional equipment. In December, the Key Club will be partnering with the Elks to send greeting cards.
NEXT> Unidentified: The Vets at Walter Reed hospital. In addition to the Key Club, will also be out in force, ringing bells at Wishing Wells around town. Last year, the Key Club

[8794-11] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School student representative reading the  | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: We would like to extend our deepest gratitude for their continued support of our programs by mobile. This year's check will go to the science department to purchase additional equipment. In December, the Key Club will be partnering with the Elks to send greeting cards.
TEXT> The Vets at Walter Reed hospital. In addition to the Key Club, will also be out in force, ringing bells at Wishing Wells around town. Last year, the Key Club shattered the high water mark with the amount they helped the counties raised. However, records are made to be broken.  Also shout out to the girls basketball team, who has a starting record of two zero this season. And from Mr. Chariot Maple Ave, Maple had a pizza party titled one Cliff night, which is Children's Literacy Foundation. On December 1st they had about 150 in attendance. The event featured a pizza meal, a guest speaker who talked to parents about ways to share a book, and a free book giveaway for parents. Parents elected to two books for their children and the books were wrapped by Maple Avenue staff. Meanwhile, our PTO took all children and attendance and had a small Christmas shopping store, arts and crafts, and a movie while parents while attending the education session. The evening concluded with their cliff speaker reading a story to everyone, while modeling some of the techniques shared in education session. It was a wonderful evening engagement of parents and community.  Also, three teachers at Maple Ave School were awarded Cliff mini grants to purchase books related to the units of study.
NEXT> Unidentified: The teachers who were these grants were. Iris had a shell which was kindergarten, Kaylee Crockett, which was grade two, and Lisa Holtz, which is grade three. Miss Filene's class

[8794-18] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Awesome.
TEXT> Michelle represents one of many, and certainly another reason to be proud of of Claremont.  There's also several reasons to be proud of Claremont. And that's measured by our by our students.  And that's why we are making a very sincere effort to be of support to our students and to provide them with a greater awareness of opportunities. And there is at your place, an article, two sided article. School counselors boost students college financial aid chances, a study finds. And and what's interesting is this one of our goals, a five year goal toward excellence is to  have up to 75% or more of our students be involved with college applications and and to accept. And the goal isn't to push a student toward college, but to make them more aware of the opportunities and how one goes  to that place of higher learning. Because I think you've heard me say before, since the 2008 financial implosion in our country, there have been several jobs created in New Hampshire. 99% of those jobs require skills that will be accrued or acquired after high school. In other words, a high school diploma is important, and the skills and the education of a public education very important. But those jobs require skills that would necessitate additional training. So that's why it's important to provide students with this opportunity. Looking at this article.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: What's interesting is says meeting one on one with a student school counselor to discuss college admissions or financial aid makes a big difference in students futures, tripling the chance

[8794-19] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: other words, a high school diploma is important, and the skills and the education of a public education very important. But those jobs require skills that would necessitate additional training. So that's why it's important to provide students with this opportunity. Looking at this article.
TEXT> What's interesting is says meeting one on one with a student school counselor to discuss college admissions or financial aid makes a big difference in students futures, tripling the chance they'll attend college, doubling the chance that they'll attend a four year college as increasing nearly seven times the likelihood that they'll apply for financial aid, according to a study published today. So I think it's very important to to acknowledge that  our three councilors at the high school Malia King, Amalia Ryans and Tyler Cederberg, working with the administration and the faculty, do have a commitment to build relationships with  our students  as well as to  work with them over a four year period, preparing them for some important decisions. It's also important to note that Susan Taylor and Felicia Harvey of the Middle School likewise  are working in conjunction with the high school to have students become more aware of the different resources. Tonight you're going to hear a a presentation Pathway to Success, which is an opportunity for Steven's high school students, as well as River Valley Community College, a technology program to  be given the the the really exciting time of applying and being accepted to taking courses over a four year period as high school students and acquiring associate degree status as far as credits that would be equal to one year of an associate  degree.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: College experience. So very interested in pathway to success. And and it's one of the many steps we're taking working with River Valley Community College to partner and provide greater

[8794-20] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: be given the the the really exciting time of applying and being accepted to taking courses over a four year period as high school students and acquiring associate degree status as far as credits that would be equal to one year of an associate degree.
TEXT> College experience. So very interested in pathway to success. And and it's one of the many steps we're taking working with River Valley Community College to partner and provide greater experiences and opportunities for our students.  Tomorrow is the Stevens High School concert. We're celebrating  the fine arts tomorrow. Tonight we're celebrating celebrating our student athletes with the Division three champions. We're also celebrating tonight,  an opportunity to recognize one of two students in the state of New Hampshire.  And you have before you,  a publication, United States Senate youth program. And in this program, you have  an email  from  Ray Gilford, program director of the United States Senate Youth Program. Addressed to Doctor Berry. And and, this speaks about none other than Marion Lovett. And I would ask Doctor Barry, could you come forward and recognize and assist us in acknowledging the accomplishment  of Berry and Lovett.
NEXT> Unidentified: Which is.

[8794-30] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'I would ask Doctor Ba | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Have to.
TEXT> Yes. I just, just wanted to say that from the Department of Education. I got a really nice Friday afternoon call, and they give the principal the opportunity to be the one to tell the student. So that was a great way to end my week. And what I was told up there was that what a lovely young lady who held herself with such a plum, such confidence, such maturity, that she was just the ideal candidate for this program, and one of only 140 in the entire nation are going on this youth. Week in D.C. and it comes with an all expenses paid week and a $5,000 scholarship. So congratulations.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So great. So I'm going to conclude by saying that, school districts that really are moving forward don't talk about what the adults are doing. We talk about what our

[8794-31] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Patricia Barry: confidence, such maturity, that she was just the ideal candidate for this program, and one of only 140 in the entire nation are going on this youth. Week in D.C. and it comes with an all expenses paid week and a $5,000 scholarship. So congratulations.
TEXT> So great. So I'm going to conclude by saying that,  school districts that really are moving forward don't talk about what the adults are doing. We talk about what our students are doing in the arts, in the academics and in the athletics, the three A's, because a measure of a outstanding growing school district is focusing on  our accomplishments of our students. It's also focusing on how we respond when students are not being successful, to help them down that path toward greater success, because it's not okay to have anyone slip through the cracks. And so tonight, I couldn't be prouder to talk about the three A's and to demonstrate to the community just what Claremont is all about. As measured by our students. Mr. chairman, that concludes my presentation.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Thank you. It's a.

[8794-36] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Chris Irish: had with with Principal Barry. It kind of grew from there. So the first thing I'd like to read is a proclamation from the Claremont School Board, Claremont, New Hampshire School Board proclamation in recognition of Stevens High School football Cardinals Division three state championship.
TEXT> Whereas we realize that participation in organized athletics helps to build character and teaches a wholesome sense of fair play and good sportsmanship and sportsmanship among our youth. And whereas to really excel in any sport, a person must demonstrate, in addition to a great deal of natural ability, an outstanding spirit of dedication, enthusiasm, hard work, and whereas an amazing example of this has been brought to our attention in the achievement of the Stevens High School football team, capturing the 2016 Division three state championship. Therefore, the Claremont School Board takes great pleasure in recognizing the significant athleticism, sportsmanship and accomplishment of the Stevens High School Cardinal football team in achieving success with winning the state championship title, and herewith offers our senior congratulations and appreciations. Thank you for that. And I also received. Jerry Maslin is a good friend of mine, and we would all sit together at the games, and halfway through the season, we realized we were kind of sitting on the wrong side of the field. But what I realized, I'm very what's the word? I was really nervous to change my pattern because you guys were winning and it was really going superstitious.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So from that moment on, I kept sitting there on purpose. I wasn't moving, I never took the wristband off, I wasn't changing, so we were on the wrong side,

[8794-42] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Chris Irish: for this, right? So I ended up I was directed towards Doolittle Printing. So I talked to Mike and he told me what size we talked about, what I wanted to do, and he finally called me back and said, well, the price is this.
TEXT> He said, but we'd really like to donate it to the team. So this was donated by Doolittle Printing because of what you guys did for this community. I think it's just that speaks to the volume. I know you got the shirts from the Ink Factory. I know,  tavern on the square fed you, and I'm. I got a hunch you haven't seen the last of this. We've got some stuff from us. So? So this on behalf of the school.
NEXT> Unidentified: Board.

[8794-53] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Paul Silva: Turn it around and hold him. Are you at night?
TEXT> So there's two other pieces to this puzzle. Like I said, I wanted to create for you guys a time capsule of sorts. Because you know how it is. You know, there's a bunch of old pictures you guys see in the in the hallway all the time from a thousand years ago. You guys are going to be those guys, you know? So I want it to be something cool. So I want I want one of the East End up in there. And then miss LeClaire has offered. She gave up her finger. That's going to go in there. Principal Berry has a red wig. I believe it's going to go in there. And I get to finally take this thing off, because I haven't dared take it off until you guys won the whole thing that's going in there. So, you know, on behalf of the school board, on behalf of the community of Claremont, and really on behalf of myself as a graduate in 83, you know, I got to see all of you guys. You guys did something truly inspirational to me. It wasn't just about the game. It wasn't about that Sophie. It was especially the Banana game.
NEXT> Chris Irish: What you guys showed at heart and soul. And I got to tell you what I saw throughout the year the sportsmanship, the class, the way you guys treated the

[8794-63] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Somebody posted.
TEXT> Pictures when they all started with the kids. Okay, so next on the agenda is. Pathway to Success program. Oh, go for it. I'm sorry.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Charlene.

[8794-65] Charlene Lovett | Public commenter, parent of student Marion Lovett (chair: 'Charlene.'  | 2016-12-07
PREV> Cory LeClair: Charlene.
TEXT> Love it. I want to thank you for recognizing Marion being accepted into the United States Youth Senate program.  But I also wanted to bring to your attention that life is all about creating opportunity for people to excel.  And I have to give my hats off to Principal Barry, because this program is something that the principal has to nominate a student for. And when Mary and I were down at the Department of Education, and when she was going through the finalist interviews and I was talking to some of the other finalists, I asked them, how did you  hear about this program in order to apply? Because as an application process and an interview process, if you make the finals and some of the students there, and this is open to juniors and seniors, mostly seniors, but some juniors do apply. And unfortunately, some of those kids told me  that, they heard about it through a friend who had been in the program, but not from the principal. So I have to tell you, this opportunity for Marion  would not have come along  had it not been for Principal Barry taking the time to think about who should she nominate for this program? It's very competitive.  And and it's because of her that this happened for Marion. So I want to say thank you to Principal Barry.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[8794-85] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Alex Herzog: It's my pleasure.
TEXT> Is the. I've been very involved over the last many years to build what we call it future workforce talent. Start early. We we have a lot of great programs as building the pathway. Everybody here probably is familiar with the running a start. We also offer Catch the wave that  allows our students in high school to take college classes at the college and receive college credits. This new initiative that we call it a pathway to success. The idea behind that one is we start with the incoming first year high school. To give them a break, we let them do their own stuff the first term because, you know, this new environment for high school students and, you don't want to overwhelm them too much. But the second semester, they actually start taking the first college course. And then in the sophomore year, they take one college course every semester. And in the junior year, two two and the senior year two, two and summer, perhaps internship. Assuming assuming that we can raise the money. You're thinking about taking a cohort of 20 students and take them through four years.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: By the time they graduate from high school, assuming that everything goes well, they have already finished more than one year of college credits. And I can just invision that

[8794-89] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: Dean of you and Manchester, I have not talked to them, but I'm sure they're going to be okay with that. To do two plus two, that they can graduate from River Valley and then finish their two years in other colleges, four year colleges.
TEXT> Every course that they take is a college course and is going to be transferable to, you know, colleges and universities around the country. I'm going to stop here and see if you have any questions. It's amazing program. Not because we designed it is just another help to try. I think part of the mission of our mission, and also your mission is to remove barriers. Right. Somebody mentioned that one again. Mel mentioned that one in our meeting a couple of hours ago. We are trying to remove the barriers in front of the students, especially when it comes to financial barriers. And this  program allows the students to go successfully through it. With the only cost of about $3,000 to the student, not to the student per student. The goal is for the students to be free of charge, assuming that we can raise money. And you had a good conversation this morning. Doctor Herzog, myself and our CFO are you had a good conversation about seeing that if there is a possibility for River Valley to use part of a scholarship money that we have, there's no guarantee on that.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: But the goal is to do that, and we're just going to be looking for some, other donors to support this program. Ideally, it should be. I don't really like

[8794-90] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: you had a good conversation this morning. Doctor Herzog, myself and our CFO are you had a good conversation about seeing that if there is a possibility for River Valley to use part of a scholarship money that we have, there's no guarantee on that.
TEXT> But the goal is to do that, and we're just going to be looking for some, other donors to support this program. Ideally, it should be. I don't really like to see that cohort goes through, and there is a empty gap after that. If we decide that this is a successful, then we can raise enough money following year. The next cohort comes and following it the next core. But at least for now, we want to get sort of like a funding that is going to do a lot of these 20 students to go for it.  And the plan is, I think sometimes around February, March, you're working with middle schools, you know,  principal and other team members to see if we can bring them to  River Valley Community College, parents and the students. To tell them about the program, at least because they have to get excited about it at that time in order to register. For courses when they start. In the high school students. I also have presented it to Newport, you know, school system.  In fact, I'm presenting this program to them. They're board meeting tomorrow night. But I think it's a great program, especially for our students in the Stevens. It's a great program for them.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Can I add that, doctor? And this week he we had about 60 middle school students, some from Newport, many from Claremont Middle School, and putting together ten computers. They

[8794-91] Alex Herzog |  | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: students. I also have presented it to Newport, you know, school system. In fact, I'm presenting this program to them. They're board meeting tomorrow night. But I think it's a great program, especially for our students in the Stevens. It's a great program for them.
TEXT> Can I add that, doctor?  And this week he we had about 60 middle school students, some from Newport, many from Claremont Middle School, and putting together ten computers. They broke up in teams. They worked with college students and they built computers. And they got the they got to ring a bell if theirs was the first one to ring in. It was a really great experience and the kids just loved them. We hopped them up on sugar donuts and they were just techies.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: We let the parents worry after they get home to worry about the sugar level. I know I didn't get a chance to talk to you guys, but I saw

[8794-96] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: To students.
TEXT> Yeah. The good news or bad news depends on how you look at it is a I have doctorate in computer science, and I've done computer science for a while,  and a  last job before I came to River Valley. I worked at a, I called it one of the coolest companies in New Hampshire and fastest growing private company in the Manchester called dying. And, I can actually represent or talk to the students and show them the importance of information technology and business. The goal is, with your help, the team's help, starting January, February, we have to do few visits. It would be nice to go to middle school and present, but I also like, at the same time to bring the students that they can come and see all the student services or Success center, all the great things that we are doing at River Valley to come and see it, and more and more we're going to explain to them. But again, reality is not everybody from middle school that's graduating is going to go to technology. What they need to understand this can be implemented in other majors. I have talked to my chairs and the chairs actually, they know this is a pilot program, but nothing is going to stop us from doing. I'm not going to promise right now especially there's something blinking down there.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: It says on the air there, but there's nothing. It's going to stop us from doing physical therapy. Doing occupational therapy. All those great majors that we have. I can't

[8794-99] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Patrick Adrian: No.
TEXT> It's going to be yeah, marketing is very, very important. How do we market that? And one of the things that gets me excited is because the support that the school is going to provide together, I'm sure we're going to manage to provide enough information to these students who realize what a great opportunity is for them. Imagine you finish the high school and you already done more than a year, not even assuming that everybody goes based on the schedule. The challenge is going to be, which I know your email said that you're going to start having some conversation. The challenge is to do those courses to become, dual dual credits, because right now those courses are going to be college courses. But if we can do something that  students doesn't have to worry about. Oh, wait a moment. If I take that, then I have to go do another course here if we can manage. And I think your curriculum, a person is going to meet with our faculty, try to figure out how can we do that? The students does one thing gets credit for both, similar to running.
NEXT> Unidentified: This stuff.

[8794-103] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Quick question. I'm just really cool idea from a cost standpoint when you're talking that $3,000 per student, is that for the year or is that for the entire.
TEXT> Well, for each student is for four years.
NEXT> Unidentified: That $3,000 is also going to cost for four years.

[8794-117] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: And so these conversations, there are a lot of steps, as Corey just said, between a four year degree and some of these programs, that and licenses certificates that kids become immediately employable and at a really good rate of pay, very, very livable wages.
TEXT> I want to also add what Frank said and what the Corey said. This is again is not done deal. Yet one of the  head of our students success under Doctor Herzog  and my associate VP from Lebanon. Lebanon location. You're actually working designing a course  that you don't have a name for it yet. For now, I call it career exploration. My hope is to that course to be one of the first couple of courses of many of our majors, that the students that get exposed to Korea are. In fact, I had a program in Manchester that I took our students, high school students that were taking college courses with me. I took them to different companies. They came to dine. They came to Silver Lake. They went to, you know, Dean Carmen's company. Then after a while, after the third course, there were students coming and saying that I cannot see myself programing computer programing eight hours a day. What the goal was and met the goal was to expose them to different opportunities. They can decide. You know, I don't want to have anything to do with this one, but they wouldn't know that one until they get exposed.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: Therefore, that course when it's designed by these two individuals, it's going to be a great course. It's going to be offered as part of this particular program is not

[8794-123] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Do.
TEXT> To expose students to different opportunities, to have to be more aware. And in certain cases, as was just said, provide them opportunity to acquire skills either immediately after high school or through Valley Community College during the high school experience. So where I'm going with this is that we're not adding a layer here. We're not adding one more thing that we're going to do. This fits in beautifully with the direction during our five year plan toward excellence. And it is about, as I said earlier this evening, it's about students.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: And one thing that you were talking you were talking about costs everybody. All of a sudden I realized that I need to tell you that I didn't even think

[8794-126] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Chris Irish: Stevens, and it was huge for her. When she walked into Nht, she was already hitting the ground running more than most. And that was it was a good thing. I wish more kids would take advantage of that. More parents take advantage of that.
TEXT> I'm glad you mentioned parents, because one of the things Doctor Herzog and the team we have been talking about is we keep concentrating on the students, the students, you know, that age. You know, I have two daughters that age a long time ago. They don't really see the big picture. They don't see the light at the end of the tunnel.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[8794-146] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: We have.
TEXT> It in town here, you know, to maximize that resource. Well, this is a huge benefit anywhere to having a Cisco certified testing facility, right? Right. That's a huge plus to have local for those kids. And that's that's the big if they can get that certification before they got out of high school there, the Red River of the world will pay for the rest. And that's that's the certifications. Nowadays. On the networking side, specialty is the big part.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I.

[8794-158] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. How about.
TEXT> Mr. Chairman? Vice chairman, if I can just,  just for a moment, the cake I'm holding. Is is the cake that Pat Berry brought in recognition of Marion Lovett's accomplishment. And as I said earlier, the documentation regarding this wonderful program that Marion, one of two students in New Hampshire, was recognized for. This is our way of celebrating. So, Marion, this may be an this may be an unprecedented moment, but I'm not sure when the last superintendent held up a piece of cake in celebration of one of our students. But it is all about students.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: If you don't eat it.

[8794-162] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Sprague: 'as Corey just said' [227] a | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: maybe cross over if they can meet them. Well, they're doing that work of their going to work on some of these tech center classes to see if they can get, you know, maybe work in English credit in if somebody is up here. Okay.
TEXT> That's already started actually  this year. And so they are in the process. And Pat may be able to speak to this a little bit more eloquently than I can, but in the process of looking at tech, English and tech math and embedded credits for the courses taken over here and how we how we work on that. So we're really, with the introduction of a curriculum specialist position at the high school, we have the capacity to better explore nontraditional learning opportunities for our kids to meet our students needs, whether it be embedded credits, whether it be, college courses at the high school level, whether it be extended learning opportunities we have a few students right now pursuing allows very robust yellows to gain credit for things that we don't typically offer. Agriculture is one of the fields. And so we're we're very much expanding beyond the brick and mortar walls of the high school to better meet the needs of our kids. And just starting I mean, this we're really just starting, but we have a lot underway.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[8815-28] Marion Lovett | Stevens High School student representative (superintendent: 'I think M | 2016-12-21
PREV> Marion Lovett: not getting a coffee from the theater department in the morning or missing out on food during lunch. It's really heartwarming. And then from the elementary schools. Dessner chorus members visited Elmwood home on Monday to spread some holiday cheer and share their musical talents.
TEXT> Dessner students and staff are excited to attend the shows holiday concert on Thursday. We are looking forward to our school assemblies on Friday, where our monthly student and staff wards will be given out, and then from Maple Ave, the Maple Avenue teachers Brian Kane, which is grade five, and Brittany McAuliffe, which is grade four, organize a student service project with their classes to have a food drive. Maple Avenue collected over 700 items that will be delivered to the local food pantry this week. We are very proud of our students commitment and understanding of the needs in the community. Then for chefs sports, the boys basketball is three zero, which is a good record to have. And then the girls basketball is three and two, and then bowling is actually undefeated so far. And last week they beat one of the top teams in the division. So they're looking towards playoffs with high hopes of doing well. That's all I have for you guys.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah.

[8815-37] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Pierce: 'Straight there, Chris.' [3 | 2016-12-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: I already emailed so perfect asked to see if we can get it because I haven't seen it yet either.
TEXT> It'd be good to do it at the next meeting. So we publicize on CCTV. Have you guys done? I'm done because I wanted to piggyback on the piggyback, and I just, Because it's been a pretty it's it's been an amazing year for our student athletes as well as we all know, for a lot of different reasons. And I say student athletes because I think Frank just hit on it. I think it's everything is having an effect. And success is feeding on success academically and athletically. And we're seeing the fruits of those laborers. And I think it's really cool. So what I wanted to do is just share. There's been a lot of words that have been handed down from the state for a lot of our,  our fall athletes and coaches, and I just wanted to go down the list to make sure they all got recognized from this level. So for football, all state offense, we had quarterback Henry Bourque, running back Richard Bell, wide receiver Parker Smith in offensive line, Aidan Cahill for a Division three North second team. We had Nick Stone at offensive line and Chris Lafont offensive line, and then on defense we had North first. So yeah, for the North first team was Zach Brian, North second team was Joe Desolate, Nick O'Brien and Zach Stanhope.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So that was football for girls soccer all state. We had Jasmine Griffith who made Division three first team, Kelsey Kelsey Belisle made honorable mention for Division three and Bethany

[8815-45] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [63-71]; 'Middleton.' [ | 2016-12-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the academics, the arts and the athletics were alive and well. And the ship is turning. And it's very exciting. It's very exciting. I'm also very pleased to tell the community that we are wrapping up our collective bargaining with our respective units or associations.
TEXT> And, we're very pleased that we're coming to closure and have reached agreements, and we'll be discussing that more publicly in early January. And last but not least, tonight we're going to be spending time on on our budget. It's going to be our first look.  And I think it's going to be important as we go forward with this first look to. Take a hard look at the way we are, and then to also have some clarification as we plan for the meetings in January, but a great deal to be proud of as we wrap up 2016. Great deal to be proud of as measured by our students.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Any questions for the superintendent? And thank you for your report.

[8815-52] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [63-71]; 'Middleton.' [ | 2016-12-21
PREV> Michelle Pierce: in their their office now, and we have a space where we're going to try to start showcasing art, from the general public and then the schools. So we're, we're in process of trying to get that work through. So hopefully you'll be able to.
TEXT> We've we've had art shows at the opera house before.  We also have demonstrations of student artwork on our, on our website, but  I,  I'm not satisfied that we're doing enough because there is a great deal to be proud of with our student artwork. I think Marion Lovett wants to say something.
NEXT> Chris Irish: To.

[8815-347] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Thank you. Corey.' [6] -> tak | 2016-12-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: in that building. That was done at bluff as well, and I believe the plan is to go through with more of fine tooth comb and other schools as we move forward to ensure that the pair coverage matches what is required in the IEP.
TEXT> And I think when we we meet next time, I hope that, Chris can be here to speak to what the needs are currently of the students  and what the needs of the students from preschool coming into kindergarten are, because I think that that will be a significant part of the conversation moving forward. And we're talking about the number of paraprofessional staff needed.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: For Chris does plan to be here on the fourth.

[8815-480] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Thank you. Corey.' [6] -> tak | 2016-12-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks. Thank you.
TEXT> The next two are both for the one for all space that we have at 169 Main Street. One is from the New Hampshire Charitable Foundation and anonymous donor for $2,000. And the second is from the Greater Claremont Board of Realtors. For  $1,100. And the reason I asked to do these separate from the first so the board of Realtors was a complete and really nice surprise. They took a vote, I believe is the way I understand it. And they chose to give this to us for the one for all space to use to support our families and our students. We didn't expect that one to be coming at all. So that was really gracious of them. And, it's nice to have the second with the New Hampshire Charitable Foundation is we are in the process of establishing, a licensed spot for our high school students who have babies to have care for their babies so they can attend their high school program. This would happen at the one for all space. And so we have submitted the licensing application to the state to be a licensed daycare provider. Mike and I have some details to work out still, but the goal is to have that space licensed for up to four  infants. Right now, we have identified at least three infants, of our current high school students.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And it would hopefully, for all intents and purposes, be self-funding because we can apply to the state for childcare reimbursement for each one of those children on a full

[8815-481] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Thank you. Corey.' [6] -> tak | 2016-12-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: to be a licensed daycare provider. Mike and I have some details to work out still, but the goal is to have that space licensed for up to four infants. Right now, we have identified at least three infants, of our current high school students.
TEXT> And it would hopefully, for all intents and purposes, be self-funding because we can apply to the state for childcare reimbursement for each one of those children on a full time basis. We would budget for that accordingly. And these grant funds  will be used to offset any other ancillary costs, because we would have to have a staff person there to be able to provide that care. We're still working out the details, as I mentioned, looking to have sort of a cooperative component in place where if you are a high school student with a with an infant and you need to care for that infant you are, you can bring your infant to us. But there's a parenting, training part that you need to participate in and working out what those details look like. So they,  they, get to complete their high school program. We get graduates on the books as opposed to drop outs.  And there's a parenting component for them to support them as parents as they are now parents. So we've identified a few children, a few students already. We've been talking with them. And so this is in the work. So these grant funds that we've received and donations that we have received from New Hampshire Charitable and the board of realtor will go toward supporting our ability to have our high school students complete their program. In graduate school.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Motion.

[8845-32] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-47]; 'Fiscal year 1 | 2017-01-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: I know.
TEXT> That guy. Yes. Spoke. Our intention is to provide a personalized education experience for each student who walks through our doors. And. Doctor Ali made the comment, we need to make sure our programs and certifications are market driven. When we develop a new offering, it shouldn't be in a vacuum. It should be in partnership. That means we need to listen to make sure we're providing the education and skills so students are ready when they get the job. So I'm going to pass this around to you. But what's very, very important to me about this publication,  is that this is exactly why the Claremont School District  is partnering and building a stronger relationship with River Valley Community College, because what  Alex Herzog and his colleagues stated is exactly the direction the Claremont School District is moving forward. So congratulations to River Valley Community College. Alex didn't know I was going to be a market spokesman for the college, but I think it's wonderful. I think it's wonderful. And it speaks about,  the community college system. It also speaks about Claremont. And  that concludes my brief comments tonight.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Any questions for the superintendent? Okay. I guess we'll open up for citizens comments. Seeing none, we'll close citizens comments. And we're going to take a break for

[8845-78] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-47]; 'Fiscal year 1 | 2017-01-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the reason I'm talking to you about this is twofold. One is I it's just important for the community to understand that the Claremont School Board and Claremont School Board members, before you have been very diligent in the effort of maintaining a reasonable increase.
TEXT> But there's another thing sidebar here, too, which is because of us maintaining  a budget that has resulted in the default budget being larger than the budget, which normally the default budget is smaller because the expectation is the budget will increase at a greater rate than default. But just the opposite has occurred. We are lean. We do not have  a great deal of  of direction to  reduce the budget because we have been compressing. We've been through a restructuring. We haven't been eliminating programs lest the program wasn't warranted. So that being said, over a period of fiscal year 13, the fiscal year 17, the budget has increased 1.57%. It still has an impact on the tax rate, among other factors. But I I'm pleased and certainly appreciative of the school board with the effort to try to maintain a reasonable budget. But in the same light, you have a legal responsibility to provide for the education of our children. And so you're between sort of a rock and a hard place. You're the stewards of the taxpayers dollars, but you're also responsible to provide an adequate education for children legally. And sometimes those two can feel a little polarized. What are the challenges we are facing now?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Is public school adequacy a and for the next several years and less this changes, there will be a reduction in Claremont's adequacy aid, a 4% incremental reductions. And you

[8845-79] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-47]; 'Fiscal year 1 | 2017-01-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: between sort of a rock and a hard place. You're the stewards of the taxpayers dollars, but you're also responsible to provide an adequate education for children legally. And sometimes those two can feel a little polarized. What are the challenges we are facing now?
TEXT> Is public school adequacy a and for the next several years and less this changes, there will be a reduction in Claremont's adequacy aid, a 4% incremental reductions. And you can see just talk about the next four years if this remains unchanged every year, Claremont will see a reduction. And as we attempt to keep the budget reasonable, if we had that reduction in adequacy, a, then clearly we are either going to make some major changes with instructional programs or opportunities for students, or we're going to expect the taxpayer to make up the difference. That's very challenging in a community where revenue is a problem. The hope is that that Claremont and several other communities are joining together, working with the state legislatures. And I believe, Patrick, I read something about you being involved with making some contact with some of the state legislators just to make them sensitive. We have a serious problem. So that being said. Clearly, even though there is this challenge of adequacy aid, you still legally bound and have the responsibility for educational quality. And in fact, you have a fiscal responsibility as being responsible for how the taxpayers dollars are spent and the quantity that are spent. So you're in a position where you are responsible for the education of the children, but in the same light, you you feel a breathing down your neck about the tax rate. And so how do we balance that?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Well, in some cases we don't balance it. But I think what's critical is that we maintain ongoing communication with the community as, which is exactly what we are doing

[8845-80] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-47]; 'Fiscal year 1 | 2017-01-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: and the quantity that are spent. So you're in a position where you are responsible for the education of the children, but in the same light, you you feel a breathing down your neck about the tax rate. And so how do we balance that?
TEXT> Well, in some cases we don't balance it. But I think what's critical is that we maintain  ongoing communication with the community as, which is exactly what we are doing with the budget, what our budget increases are, how we're attempting to mitigate that impact on on the  on the tax rate may minimize that impact on the resident and the homeowner. And so these PowerPoint presentations for me are to provide information for the community that we are sensitive to the tax rate and we are sensitive to the budget, but we also have a responsibility to the children of this community. As of today, the $1 million budget that you saw in December 21st, 2016, the first draft is now 552 $553,000 larger than the current year. Last month it was a million more.  Some of this has been done by identifying some errors. Some of it has been making some strategic adjustments. But I will tell you that this $552,000 increase represents a 1.7% percent, 1.76% increase. It's important to emphasize that we're not done yet because it does not include the collective bargaining increases. So January 11th, 2017,  the administration, the principals, the administration are going to present recommendations to the school board regarding  the fiscal year 18 budget. And in this case, we're going to make an effort to take the $553,000 increase, adding the collective bargaining to that, and then how we can offset that with some strategic restructuring. You've heard me say before.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The worst thing you can do with a budget is just to reduce it as if it was a math problem, because every reduction has an impact. Our goal is

[8845-82] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-47]; 'Fiscal year 1 | 2017-01-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: toward the end of January. By the way, you need to reduce the budget more. So we need to have a sense that we are we're going is an attempt to minimize the impact on the tax rate unless we hear differently from the board.
TEXT> So January 11th is when a week from tonight is when we'll have a public hearing and when we will be discussing some strategic changes. And those strategic changes,  once again, are going to be focusing on not compromising the education of our students.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Who wants to get this started, Frank?

[8845-330] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (O'Neill: 'Chris, you said you sent  | 2017-01-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Think in addition to that, if there are classes that are taking place here that can be used for credits at the high.
TEXT> School,  Corey's on that. That's what I'm dual enrollments and things like that and even even what what Ali gave to us, I said it publicly. I have no that does not belong at the high school. That program he's talking about, catch the Wave belongs to the high school. I'd rather see his focus effort on making that successful before we go to a whole new program. Catch the wave hasn't even been close to many. Utilize the way it should last. I knew once one student, my daughter, went through it and it was hugely successful. So we get 100 students. That's 100 successes versus. But that program that he identified to me is 100% a tech center program that we should have an IT program to jive with that, to send those kids over there. But how do we get there? Is the unknown.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Well, I think the foundation is being laid as we speak with a publication image, the presentation by Doctor Ali. I know we're not there yet, but but it's it's

[8873-6] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (budget hearing presentation [4-40]; Sprague add | 2017-01-11
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: over 300 students. But it's not just a Claremont issue. If you look at the state of New Hampshire over the past several years, the enrollment has been continuously decreasing. The dilemma is that the enrollment is decreasing, but the cost of education is increasing.
TEXT> And why is enrollment decreasing? Because in the state of New Hampshire, the birth rate is decreasing. In fact, demographically,  the middle age and older population  is  expanding, is expanding in comparison to the young or youth of our of our state. So as the enrollments decreasing, the cost of education is increasing. This gives you a snapshot of the past several years of the Claremont School District. With the exception of the 0.58 5.8% increase, which was duly related to the Stevens High School renovation project. I think you can see the school board you have done, and prior members have done a great deal of work to minimize the increase in the budget. In fact, if you look at the increase in the budget over this period, it's less than 2%, but that still represents $2.4 million over that period of time. The good news is there is it's not all  on the taxpayer's back in New Hampshire without any other sales tax, state tax. It predominantly, predominantly  on the real estate tax. The good news is the state has stepped up. The bad news is the state is stepping back. This is  gives you a view of nationally of how important state revenue is to public schools.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But the demand on local funding in New Hampshire will be increasing. That becomes very problematic if there isn't a tax or revenue source. Let me give you an example

[8873-9] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (budget hearing presentation [4-40]; Sprague add | 2017-01-11
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: 18 classes that are less than ten students at Stevens High School, about 4243 that are 10 to 15 students, about a little over 50. 16 to 20 students. And we have approximately 3132 students. Excuse me, 32 classes that have more than 20 students.
TEXT> I think it's wonderful if a school district can support that pupil teacher ratio. But in times of economic challenges, we have to look at that. And that's one of the areas of efficiencies. And if we compare the elementary to the middle to  the high, you can see that Stevens High School has the advantage  of having several classes less than ten and several classes between 10 and 15. Research has shown that class size is not the major factor on student achievement in the school classroom. It's the skills of the teacher. It's the relationship with the teacher and student. So it's important to note that. So we looked at that kind of information and went through the process of the budget discussion and decisions being made. So with declining enrollment and with declining state age, the school administration has asked a question how can we do things differently? Can we sustain our programs but look at other ways of doing this versus changing nothing and going forward with an $850,000 increase? I don't think that's realistic in today's economy. And these changes can't be based on emotions or friendships. They have to be based on data. And that's the difficult part, because a lot of times when we're dealing with budget impact, we're talking about people. When we talk about people, we talk about people we care about. We talk about people, educators, administrators, parents, whatever the case may be who have assisted us.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And now we're talking about this type of change. But it has to be impersonal, and it has to be based on strategy for a reason. There are some recommendations,

[8873-64] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: being in school for six and a half, seven hours a day is not going to happen for them, and that we've provided alternative ways for them to get their Stevens High School diploma and met the needs of a lot of kids that way.
TEXT> What we're looking to do is expand  that. We have an alt program. We've met the needs of a number of students who otherwise would be out of district placements, and we've kept them in district, and that's growing. I'm very proud of how we're meeting the needs of those kids, and we've been working with Amy Hood and adult Ed to create hybrid individual learning plans for students because there's no two student circumstances who are alike. And so really, an in-depth, integrated Alt program has to be everything that we can put together for a student and their individual needs. And so looking at how you're looking at a cut here, but the cut would represent work that we're doing to as doctor McGowan said, look at new strategies, new out of the box ways, using adult ed in ways that we've never utilized it before to meet the needs of those kids, because those needs aren't going away and we don't want those kids to go away. We want to be able to service them and give them ways and pathways, more pathways than currently exist. The Owls program is, is is the derivative of the ombudsman, which is what we originally had in the district. And it is two sessions, 2.5 hours in the morning. You're in that session or you're in the 2.5 hour session in the afternoon.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So with a capacity of 30 between the two sessions, we believe that by expanding the different kinds of alternative routes and pathways that we offer for students overall, that

[8873-65] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: exist. The Owls program is, is is the derivative of the ombudsman, which is what we originally had in the district. And it is two sessions, 2.5 hours in the morning. You're in that session or you're in the 2.5 hour session in the afternoon.
TEXT> So with a capacity of 30 between the two sessions,  we believe that by expanding the different kinds of alternative routes and pathways that we offer for students overall, that we can meet the needs of students, and still be able to afford that particular cut. It does not mean that we're taking away services. It means that we're looking at other ways to meet the those students needs. The two acknowledge the new technology. Equipment is the same as you heard from the other schools. Things that we would have gotten more  or new that don't currently exist. It's not a replacement of things we currently have. And so  that would just push out that agenda for those items a little bit more. And the two things that we're looking to add, the alt program director, as I've said to you before,  that program, in order to be able to run,  efficiently and it needs to have a director, not just a teacher. And so we're looking to create that job description so that that person has more administrative responsibilities within that program. And that would we're we're thinking that stipend would be a way to to change that.  And also for our discipline monitor at the high school, that job has grown exponentially in what is done. It's it is it is not, a job like any other.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: It doesn't fit into a category, certainly doesn't fit the typical para description that it's currently under the auspices of a para, contract. And so to acknowledge the amount of

[8873-90] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Class, but there's not like a.
TEXT> A lot of groundwork has been done in the sense that in your you're partially right, you're partially right. And and gutting the program, which is why there's, there's one position being cut not not to. So there's a recognition that the program has value and does meet the needs of kids and does need to remain in the district.  You know, I leave that to you in your decision making process as to, to where that lands with things, but when when charged with looking at class size and teacher student ratio. And how  can we begin to provide services to students in other ways with other existing resources that are in the district? We we feel that there are other ways to meet the needs of some of those students and then those who traditionally need that owls format that that's still there for them. And so it's like I said, it's not eliminating, but for some students, you know, I probably had about three student meetings this week where this wasn't working, and we needed to take a look at what can we do through adult ed, what can we do through JAG?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: What can we do through an alter day? What is that students plan that's unique to them and their needs? Because plan A, B, and C didn't work and we're

[8873-91] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: I said, it's not eliminating, but for some students, you know, I probably had about three student meetings this week where this wasn't working, and we needed to take a look at what can we do through adult ed, what can we do through JAG?
TEXT> What can we do through an alter day? What is that students plan that's unique to them and their needs? Because plan A, B, and C didn't work and we're constantly doing that. And that to me I think is, is is is is very, very necessary because we're, we're looking at that student. We're not saying, you know, cookie cutter just because being in the Stephens building isn't working for you go to owls because that's the only other place other than behavioral program that we have for you. It's rather saying we have to customize for each kid the plan that's going to work for them. And it's not always going to look like a 2.5 hour session. It might look like that. And then something at night, and it might look like a course with Mr. Silva during the day. And, you know, so expanding, constantly expanding what we can offer kids to make it work for them.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And I'd rather give a chance for like kind of the public to I know I don't want to, like, suck up all the time.

[8873-97] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Cory LeClair: Well.
TEXT> Before we had the Alt program, before we had some of these other things like working with Amy Hood. It if I'm correct, we hit a high of about 44 year before last. And that's because any student that wasn't thriving, we said, okay, go to Alice. And they have a very clear criteria. You know, you have to have 13.5 credits. You have to have junior or senior status. It's meant to be a two year program, not a four year program. But we were plugging students in because that was the only that was the only other thing we could do. And so they went up to 44.   Everybody acknowledged at one point we said, you know, the fidelity of what they could do for their students wasn't there because the numbers were so high. And we sat down and we said, let's get it back to what we said was the max, which was 35 and 15 in each session. And let's get back to what we said we were going to do as far as the interview process for getting students in et cetera, etc.. So then it went back to 30. And at this point in time, I want to say we're at about 23 between the two sessions.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And what is what are the sessions typically break down into for numbers of students?

[8873-104] Brian Dillon | Owls program teacher, Stevens High School (Barry: 'Brian, is it about  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Rapp: Can you. Yeah. Thanks.
TEXT> So board members, Mr. Superintendent, the the nature of how we get our students is directly related to, success or failure of students at Stevens. You know, where they're. They've been asked to. Well, try to stay, you know, go to class, do your work and see if you can be successful. If having done that, they still are not achieve the success that they need, then they have the guidance counselors will fill out a rubric, the rubric that says there's this person a high, high risk for dropping out. Is this person, better suited for the kind of situation that we, we provide? And typically we have that sort of fluctuate. For example, already this year, three of our students have graduated. They made up their quest they needed to do and boom, they're out in the world there. They've got jobs, they're valuable members of the community. And that can happen at any time. As soon as the student is ready, prepared, able to finish up, they got their head in the right place. They come in, they can graduate at any time. They'll fulfill all the requirements, the community service and so on. So how that works. Guidance counselors see a need. We now have our SST program flowing along. So there's a lot of oversight of students who are kind of getting into a maybe a bad direction.
NEXT> Brian Dillon: And the guidance counselors and Nestor get together and they say, yeah, this person's a possibility. They talk to us, they look at the rubric, and then, you know, we

[8873-106] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Barry: 'as Corey was saying' [215] ab | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Dillon: could be at any time. So no, I don't have any idea. I do know that we have three more students who probably graduate in the next week and a half. If not maybe at the beginning of February. So that's what we're there for.
TEXT> We also have a number of students in the owls are. Either expectant. Parents or who already have children. So one of the other things we've talked about at the board level is how we are trying to  get the licensing in place for a daycare service for our students who are high school students, who have children already, who are expecting children, so that they have that solid daycare in place so that they can complete their high school programing. So that is a factor in this as well.
NEXT> Unidentified: But it does. It doesn't.

[8873-111] Brian Dillon | Owls program teacher, Stevens High School (Barry: 'Brian, is it about  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patrick Adrian: other partnership and trying to provide that need. I just I just want to make sure. Sure. It sounds like that really that that's something that complements what we're already doing. And we don't know what how the alternative is going to work just yet.
TEXT> Well, as a program that successful is an organic thing that grows. And ours has over the years, we've, you know, as Miss Berry was saying, you know, that used to be this large population and some of the students were not interested in graduating. And now we have people who want that special situation, are interested in graduating to come in and they get to work. It doesn't look like a normal classroom. There are people who come in, they sit down, they get to work, and that's the environment that they needed. Right? And, you know, it's not just computers in a room. It's the teachers, the students, the computers, the room, the the outreach that we've done to deal with young parenthood, the programs we have that  have come in to start to help people with life skills,  from Dartmouth-Hitchcock and other sources. It's a, you know, yes, it's an evolving thing, but careful which which limbs you cut off, you know, because it may not be able to walk anymore.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right. And I think that's.

[8873-114] Brian Dillon | Owls program teacher, Stevens High School (Barry: 'Brian, is it about  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Exactly what I'm saying is, it sounds I, I really would not want to tamper with that with.
TEXT> Right. We acknowledge that it's there's opportunity to grow. That's what we've been doing. That's what we encourage in our students. But your point about it being kind of sudden and, you know, being part of that new growth and direction is something we'd like to see happen.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. Brian.

[8873-126] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brent Ferland: So they need or different something's different. So they need this this different alternative. And that's the whole purpose of that is to meet that different learning style.
TEXT> And needs like. You know as, as, as Corey was saying, you know, when you, when you've got a child at home and you need to to work a job, but you want to graduate that, that provides that opportunity or, a lot of our students have, various different domestic challenges that they're dealing with. And, when I say domestic, you know, needs at home that they that they're taking on and or, you know, each scenario for every kid is as different as and unique as the kid. Yeah.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: One of the things that I struggle with sometimes is when I want to look at my son on the board, and we talk about all the different programs. What

[8873-146] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I think, Michelle' [51 | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Diminished state.
TEXT> And it's being consolidated to fit the budget so that we're not charging the taxpayers. And it's not necessarily  cutting off to unsupported, but rather open up support for more avenues for these children. Is that what I'm hearing?
NEXT> Brian Dillon: That's what it sounds like. But our position is that is not exactly the case, that something that is working as is, is not set in concrete, has not been

[8873-154] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I think, Michelle' [51 | 2017-01-11
PREV> Michelle Pierce: years ago when we looked at the dropout rates and what we could do different if this is going to service children that, that that are carrying children, that will make it easier for them than, you know, then we need to look at that.
TEXT> I'm not denying that it isn't a success, because obviously it's a success. From the people sitting here and from emails that I've read. What I want to see and understand, though, is, is that if we're moving forward, then we need to move forward in every direction and to be to be able to go to the table and say, this is what can happen with the program still involved, you should be very proud of because Bluff Maple, all of these schools we just watched, $850,000 increase being dropped considerably at the taxpayers request at the at the at the citizens saying we don't want to keep paying more and more and more. And what can you do to make that better? So I don't see that you're changing the program. I really hear the benefit of how it's going to be better  and that and that with anything comes change. I didn't want to see the schedule get changed back, because I don't want to see the kids get yanked anymore.  However, that didn't happen. You know, we have to have some consistency. And I believe that growth and looking at new ways, trying to create a child care center for the children that are already carrying children  and that burden, those are great things. We have to keep looking forward and looking for better ways, and we can't be taking it. As you're taking it away from me, you need to be.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: We need to be sincere in our hearts and looking at the way of how we're going to make it better. So if anything, I applaud you for having to

[8873-163] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Of those?
TEXT> Sure. You know, in some ways, a lot of ways, athletics,  the arts there another form of an alternative program. Okay. You know it. That's what captures our kids and  often is the reason why they show up in the morning at all.  It affects school culture. You know, we saw what happened when we went to a football championship.  Is that the essence of education? It's a big part of it. You know what's taught through athletics? The kind of young men and women that we develop through athletics. Our. That's that's a big part of the educational process of of what we offer at Stevens. So,  you know, and people talk about pay to play and they talk about, you know, it's a separate thing. So if you're going to be involved in it, you should pay for the privilege of, you know, wearing the uniform. And not everybody should have to not in a community like Claremont. Some of the kids who need to be on that field or on that court, the most of the kids who can't afford to pay to play kind of situation. So  I'll tell you, Coach Silva last  last season was spending his when we were still in the renovation. It was two seasons ago. It was still in the renovation.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: He spent his entire weekends after the football games, at the laundromat and at home hand-washing the football uniforms because there wasn't a washing machine available for him to use.

[8873-164] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: the most of the kids who can't afford to pay to play kind of situation. So I'll tell you, Coach Silva last last season was spending his when we were still in the renovation. It was two seasons ago. It was still in the renovation.
TEXT> He spent his entire weekends after the football games, at the laundromat and at home hand-washing the football uniforms because there wasn't a washing machine available for him to use. And he got, I think, eight, nine, ten years out of those uniforms where most schools go through a set in three, 4 or 5 years.  So there have been some things that we've been extremely judicious about in the athletics program. Very, very conservative. And Mr. Beaupre is acknowledging now that it's time that some of those uniforms get replaced, some of those helmets get replaced, keeping our kids safe, you know, giving them the best equipment while they're on the field and on the court is extremely important. So  I see that as. Being. Make up for a lot of lean years as far as financing athletics. You're welcome.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Chris. Okay.

[8873-208] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (budget hearing presentation [4-40]; Sprague add | 2017-01-11
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: than article two, then the collective bargaining agreements are safe, because I don't think too many people are going to be voting for a default budget that larger than the regular budget, and our teachers and employees who have participated in the collective bargaining process.
TEXT> This is critical for us. An example in point, and I'm not going to be too long, but I do respect what you've said, Brian.  We are, and I'm not exaggerating, but anywhere from six to over $20,000 behind in other districts with pay scale, we have lost some wonderful, wonderful colleagues who did the right thing for their families. Two years ago, one staff member left Claremont Middle School $20,000 increase this year in elementary school. Staff member left $24,000 increase. Now, we're not going to make up that difference, but the collective bargaining agreements have allowed us to raise and decrease that gap between Claremont and other districts. Our faculty, our colleague, deserved this. Also, the children deserve not to have a revolving door of of good people. We hire and recruit and train, leave maintenance custodians, Paris secretaries, roofing improvements. You'll see for maintenance custodians, $0.07 per parent negotiations $0.17. Secretaries $0.04. Roofing improvements. No increase on the tax rate because we had roofing improvements this year. Capital reserve zero at the 15th cent reduction. And last but not least, security upgrades the work of the principals, the work of you even before again, this is the work in progress. But as of right now, at 8:00 on January 11th, what we've done represents 16 cent increase on the thousand.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I want to thank all of all of the administrative team who has put in countless hours. We've done our job, we've given our best thoughts. However, now it's up

[8873-213] Mike | Public commenter, Ward 1, recently retired Stevens High School teacher | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: All right.
TEXT> I wanted to. First of all, I want to thank everybody for all the work that this group has done. Secondly, I love the owls program, and I wanted to speak about that, but I know there's about a lot of people that are going to do that. So instead I'm going to talk about the p position suggested  cut. 32 years of experience has told me any time you cut any personnel in any position, the kids suffer  somehow. And we're looking now at one person taking care of the 500 plus students physical education needs. Now, I know we can do things like saying, okay, if you know, if a child has karate lessons or something, well, that would count. Well, I don't know that that's really a good idea. You see, physical education means physical and education. And it means as, as Frank suggested earlier, you know, it also means how do you play a game? Why is it important that you stay healthy? If we look at or if I look at the past few years,  this is. There are a great number of students that came through my classes at the high school. That were very unhealthy weight wise. And I know there are probably an occasional teacher that might have that same situation,  but, but I wonder where they got that way. And I don't believe that cutting a PE teacher in any way, shape or form is going to serve our students well.
NEXT> Mike: On the contrary, it's going to serve our students poorly.

[8873-214] Mike | Public commenter, Ward 1, recently retired Stevens High School teacher | 2017-01-11
PREV> Mike: I know there are probably an occasional teacher that might have that same situation, but, but I wonder where they got that way. And I don't believe that cutting a PE teacher in any way, shape or form is going to serve our students well.
TEXT> On the contrary, it's going to serve our students poorly.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you. Thanks.

[8873-217] Lisa Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3; works for a community social service agency  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Rapp: Who's next?
TEXT> I'm Lisa Draper. I'm a resident of Ward three. I also work for one of the community social service agencies that does outreach with the Owls program.  And I am very concerned  that adult Ed is not a substitute for the supports  that our students receive in the Owls program.  I'm all for adult ed. I think it's great, but a 17 year old is not an adult, and as far as I know, we're not offering a lot of adult ed during the same hours that our students need  the Owls program so that they can parent so that they can work and so that they can graduate. So I'm going to echo the sentiments of others who say this is a program that works.  I'm all for looking at ways to better leverage the investment we've already made in adult ed. But I want you all to recognize, since I've taught there two, that those people sign up to teach adults, they aren't necessarily the same people who have signed up to work with some of our neediest students,  and I think we need to respect that about the two different domains and find ways to put them together, but not by sacrificing this program. So thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Just ask a quick.

[8873-220] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Patrick, please' [41]  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Rapp: Sure, Liza.
TEXT> Oh, no. Well, I just want to follow up something that Liza said that I always think about. Two. It really wasn't a question, but just the, you mentioned something that  I was thinking about was about the adult Ed versus the owls program. And, I'd say to the students, whether they felt comfortable speaking to this or continue to write, my letter, I'd like to know how they feel, how they feel about the idea of kind of being an editor program as opposed to the program there. Now, because I got the  I  don't know, I think that they have to come to the better understanding of what that experience would be. Like to speak. And I guess that's why I was saying, I thought you brought up a great point. I was just kind of throwing it out there if if one way or the other, I think the students, either by letters or even here, you know, how what that experience might feel like for them one way or the other.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you.

[8873-222] Michelle Springer | Public commenter, Ward 2; graduate of the earlier alternative program  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> And Michelle Springer, I'm Ward two. I'm a lifelong resident. I'm speaking for the owls program for, I graduated from the Cat program, which is the original program. 18 years ago, I would have dropped out and I wouldn't have gone anywhere I am now. I have my associate's degree. I am certified sign language certified. I'm a registered behavior technician. And I just know that if you cut this program, you're going to see more behavior to for the behavior program. So I see that if cutting the owls altogether or even not cutting it, but like putting it into one is not going to be helpful for any of these students. And I speak that from experience.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8873-234] Brianne Lawrence | Public commenter, Ward 2; former Owls student (self-identified [383]) | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> The adult.  I wouldn't have gone into adulthood. You can't take adult ed and the kids who are in the owls program and just put them together. There are totally two different needs. I was skipping school all the time. I was having home issues, and I just wasn't really fitting in with the high school environment and the kids and people in adulthood, you know, they're adults. They they're in there for a totally different reason. I don't really know much about adult editor. I just know that the two aren't the same at all. That's probably. All I can help.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. Good job. Please. See you.

[8873-236] Amanda Mass | Public commenter, former Owls student, lives out of town (self-identif | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. Good job. Please. See you.
TEXT> Hi. My name is Amanda mass and I actually live out of town. I traveled about an hour to get here today. So I am a. I'm sorry. I don't know what ward Hillsborough would be. So I'm a former Owl student. I graduated in 2010. I spent many of you emails, so I'm sure that you got them.  I wanted to tell you a little bit about myself. I was pregnant when I came to the program, and I was going to drop out. I. I didn't have anywhere to live, and I needed to, I needed to work to be able to get an apartment for my child. And then I was recommended to go to the owls program, and it saved me.  I was able to graduate ahead of time. You know, I believe that they mentioned that, that the students are able to complete their credits and finish up with the schooling before the, you know, the May deadlines that the other students go go through. So I was able to finish up with schooling before I had my child, which was extraordinarily helpful. Now I am a mother of three, and I am finishing up with my associate's degree in nursing.
NEXT> Amanda Mass: I'm going to be finished with that in May, and I'm pursuing a career, and a doctorate degree, down the line. So, my main concern as you, as you mentioned,

[8873-237] Amanda Mass | Public commenter, former Owls student, lives out of town (self-identif | 2017-01-11
PREV> Amanda Mass: May deadlines that the other students go go through. So I was able to finish up with schooling before I had my child, which was extraordinarily helpful. Now I am a mother of three, and I am finishing up with my associate's degree in nursing.
TEXT> I'm going to be finished with that in May, and I'm pursuing a career, and a doctorate degree, down the line. So,  my main concern as you, as you mentioned, the, the adult ed that my my understanding of  that, at least when it was brought up to me in the past, is that there are financial responsibilities that are tied to it that fall on the, on the students. And for me, that wouldn't have been an option. I worked a 725. And our job, you know, it just it didn't work. My question is how is this budget money coming in? Is it just is it strictly from eliminating teacher support? Could could could you comment on that? Is it is it by eliminating the teacher positions? Is that where the the budget is coming from?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: The reduction?

[8873-241] Amanda Mass | Public commenter, former Owls student, lives out of town (self-identif | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: Part of it is from the teacher salaries. Okay. And the other pieces like the furniture and the tech equipment. So it's. A combination. Okay.
TEXT> Well, I wanted to comment on that because, the as was mentioned, the owls program, it's more than just, you know, sitting in a room with computers. It's not it's not like that. These these kids like me personally, I needed to have, support. I needed to have someone to keep me going, to keep me motivated. And that's something that can only be that. That it can only happen when you have a teacher there that is able to push you. And I think that we all know that. I think that that is completely reasonable. Otherwise we would have no teachers at all. We would just have all computer programing. It is vital to have, educators that are there to support us and to keep us going, to keep us motivated. So if we eliminate those positions, we're going to be, we're going it's going to disadvantage the students. They need they need that support. In some cases, it's the only support system that they have. So again, I'm feeling nervous too. So that's, that's going to be that's going to be all. Thank you so much.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Buddy.

[8873-269] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Sprague: 'I'm going to piggyback on | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Hurt, okay.
TEXT> She's the one that does all the concussion protocol. She's the one I mean, I can my experience is pretty simple. My daughter didn't get the only thing she got to play in her last senior game was because as she was there to take care of her and bring her back into shape, I can tell you it's stories of kids that have been hurt. You know, that's her role is to is to train. But it's really to teach them how to do the right stretches, how to be healthy, and to be there when something happens to be the first responder. In a lot of different cases, she has been, you know, so that is really her role. Is she is it for on the sidelines of every single game and and and outside that taking care of all the kids and teaching them all that, taping them before games, all that kind of stuff. It's it's a it's a pretty big responsibility. And I can tell you straight up, since she's been here, it's had a huge impact on our sports injuries and lack thereof and kids being able to come back and finish. So so it's  I can't say enough about that position and the person in it.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: All right.

[8873-289] Veronica Bellair | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified [475]; ASR spelling unverifi | 2017-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: Multiply handicap.
TEXT> And I know from my experience being involved in the Unified Team in the last three years, it's it's if you haven't seen a game, you really ought to, because there's something to be said about it. And, I'm just concerned about that class and how Carolyn handles those children. Not that someone else couldn't do it, but  for me, being involved in that, it's that's that's a concern for me. And, and I also have the concern of how one physical teacher can sustain 540 children. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8873-296] Shauna Baird | Owls program teacher (self-identified 'I teach the alternative program | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. I'd like to see that. And I'd also like to what's the completion rate then. So the 44 students in the owls and then. 23, 23.
TEXT> I'm really glad you asked me that actually. So when we first came here from we had 45 students, we had three teachers, we had two certified teachers, and we had a pair of professional in the program. So there were three individuals. And then two years later we got one of our individuals cut from our program. So we were actually operating with less personnel. So we had to reduce the numbers of our students to max out at 30. So we have 30 students. But remember, when we have students that are graduating, that opens up a spot for another student to come in. So it's not like we just service, you know, those 30 students throughout the year. We had I counted with my co-teacher. And since we've been here, Ombudsman and Owls, we've serviced 300 students. The success rate I think you've read is pretty high. I don't have exact numbers on the success rate, but in a year I would estimate that I only see 5 or 6 students leave without me really fighting for them  to to stick around.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So that's, that's that's important. I want to thank you for that because it it helped me realize something that it's not just the potentially 15 students in the morning,

[8873-304] Bruce Wilkins | Public commenter, parent of an Owls graduate (self-identified [503]) | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Four. Two, two.
TEXT> And I'm here in behalf of. My son. He went to owls. He tried everything he could to go through school, and he just couldn't do it. And he came to ALS and he graduated this year. And I'm really proud of him.  You know, like in my life, when I grew up, we didn't have things like this. And I wish there was something like this back then. They ever got rid of anything like that? I would say, no, not in a million years.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you, thank you.

[8873-425] Unidentified | Unidentified - two short remarks during the closing budget discussion  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Chris Irish: Well to Frank.
TEXT> Absolutely is a good philosophy, but it can't sacrifice the educational opportunities for our students.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And Frank's point, what we did with the with that spreadsheet from Saturday is and I said this to my in the email, is anything that we zeroed out or

[8875-24] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-54]; chair: 'everyt | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: Thank you very much. Superintendents report.
TEXT> Thank you.  Mary and Mary is correct. It is 93%. That was one of our goals for this this school year. And at the at the pat in the back for Stevens High School. As we moved toward that and talking about Pat in the back. You know, Marion mentioned about some of our elementary schools showing growth.  It's important that that students, the faculty and the community be aware and be commended, that there are many ways of identifying progress. And if we just use a state mandated assessment.  There were limitations with that,  oftentimes limitations that really don't show what's going on. What we're trying to do is not to counter the state mandate of the assessment, but provide evidence that students are growing academically. And, Marion, just the data she shared represents growth. And it represents,  I think, the work of the faculty, work of the students and the support of the parents. So thank you for bringing that up, Marion.  I would very much like to start off by introducing you to our new director of Instructional Technology. As you know, Nathan Levine is now the  assistant director of business, finance and human resources.  And through a very rigorous process,  Mr. Joshua malloy has been hired as the director of instructional technology. Josh, would you stand up, please?
NEXT> Chris Irish: Welcome.

[8875-27] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-54]; chair: 'everyt | 2017-01-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: And there's one section that talks about the hardest lessons. Let me just share a couple of these with you that no matter what you think you know about school board service, when you first come on board, you still have a lot to learn.
TEXT> You can say that about superintendent of the schools, by the way, that you can't solve everyone's problems by yourself. That the primary focus of all board decisions must be student achievement. And last but not least, that you must represent all the students. Your decisions must be made in the interests of the total school system, and not made solely for special groups or interests. And as school board members and as community members.  That's challenging. That's challenging because you're on the front line with phone calls. But I think my advice to any school board member is you make an informed decision, and you have to rely on your conscience that it is in the best interests of the students. And it is in regard to  the entire school system. So the other thing I'd like to share with you, on a totally different vein, and by the way, tonight the process will allow you to continue that as we go through the budget and provide additional information. So ultimately, a decision will be made in preparation for the deliberative session on February 8th.  Last Friday, there was an incident at Stevens High School, an incident meaning that,  a student the day before it was learned.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Created a threat, quote unquote, a Wi-Fi connection named school shooting. 11317. The school administration working closely with the police department of Thursday afternoon. And by Friday after Friday morning

[8875-58] Carolyn Hamilton | Public commenter, Ward 1; physical education teacher, Stevens High Sch | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: teachers like myself. Pretty soon you won't have to worry about cutting teachers because they'll be leaving in mass or just not coming here at all. You're building a pretty big reputation that I really hope stops pretty soon. No one wants to live here.
TEXT> And work here with fear of losing their job every single year, over  and over and over again. There are teachers in this district who have been through this for years. Some like almost longer than I've been alive. And it's it's not right. There has to be an answer to figuring this out. I get it, I pay taxes as well. They're high. But I'm from Maine and we have 8% tax on everything. So sometimes you just kind of got to suck it up. I mean, I think the education of our kids is worth it. I and many other teachers would love to worry about what we're going to teach tomorrow instead of worrying about if we're going to have a job. Pretty soon, you won't have the older teachers to hold these schools together because you've gotten rid of everybody that should be taking their place. Pretty soon they're going to retire, and there won't be anybody left to have the experience and be the older generation within your schools that you need to hold them together. The physical education program, you say tonight that you're keeping it.
NEXT> Carolyn Hamilton: Well, I really hope that that's true. I think that the whole position that I was given when I first came here is important, because we give hope to the

[8875-59] Carolyn Hamilton | Public commenter, Ward 1; physical education teacher, Stevens High Sch | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: taking their place. Pretty soon they're going to retire, and there won't be anybody left to have the experience and be the older generation within your schools that you need to hold them together. The physical education program, you say tonight that you're keeping it.
TEXT> Well, I really hope that that's true. I think that the whole position that I was given when I first came here is important, because we give hope to the students who struggle with being physically active and healthy. We provide an introduction to many different ways for them to be healthy,  and I feel that it's important for their futures. Yes, the core subjects are very important. I completely agree, but if these students don't learn to be healthy and have healthy lifestyles and live long enough to make healthy decisions for their lives, then. All that we've  talked, all the really good teachers that you have in the course subjects, it's all for nothing. Obesity is continuing to rise. More physical education is needed. Not any bit less have I come to enjoy teaching other a couple other classes. Yes, but is that my passion? Is that what I truly believe is important for our students here at Stevens? Absolutely not. It may it be important for somebody else to teach it. Of course. Since I've been here, Jeremy and I have developed our program from a single general physical education course that we inherited into six specialized courses. We have provided the rigor that we were asked to.
NEXT> Carolyn Hamilton: You're going to tell me, from what I've heard from my position being cut originally, I don't know exactly what your total plan is for putting it back or whatnot,

[8875-60] Carolyn Hamilton | Public commenter, Ward 1; physical education teacher, Stevens High Sch | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: be important for somebody else to teach it. Of course. Since I've been here, Jeremy and I have developed our program from a single general physical education course that we inherited into six specialized courses. We have provided the rigor that we were asked to.
TEXT> You're going to tell me, from what I've heard from my position being cut originally, I don't know exactly what your total plan is for putting it back or whatnot, but 550 students need to take a physical education course twice. That's 1100 students without me. Jeremy can teach 12 blocks. Four of those blocks is mandated that they are adaptive physical education. So now you're down to eight blocks for everybody else. If he averaged 20 students per class for eight blocks, that's 160 students. You multiply that by four years that they're at Stevens. That's 640 students. You're telling me that somebody definitely is not going to be. Jeremy is going to put through over 450 ellos. We can barely keep up with doing a couple of loaves and doing our classes. When does this stop? When is it? Who's next? Is it going to be math? Or they're going to get math credits for working at Walmart and being a cashier. Or culinary credits for working at McDonald's? I mean, when where is our merit behind our education that we're giving these students? I think it should be much higher than giving students the opportunity to get ellos from all these. I've seen a sheet of paper saying all these community activities that isn't physical education. That's an activity.
NEXT> Carolyn Hamilton: The last three years of budget cuts. I've also been told, don't take this personally. It's a number they need to get rid of. My number, my pay. All right.

[8875-62] Carolyn Hamilton | Public commenter, Ward 1; physical education teacher, Stevens High Sch | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: and now you're back to try and get the rest of mine last year. I feel big shoes. Judy is amazing with the adaptive kids, and it's been really tough. I've been extremely lucky that she has been one on one pair in my class.
TEXT> You can ask anyone in the life skills program or any of these kids that are here tonight. The students that are in that program don't take to change. Well, they don't take change well at all. The only  way or reason that it's worked out for me is because Judy introduced me, and I have worked with them through unified,  and they have come to trust me. And I am a little bit. I was already in with them a little bit, so it didn't. It made the change a little bit easier. Another piece that I've seen in some of the proposals for the physical education courses  are requirements. The administration believes that sports is the answer.  I've competed in four high school sports and two college sports. But I learned to be healthy from my physical education courses,  not my sports. The sports only got me so far. Being healthy during and after and for a lifetime is what we teach. Something sports alone cannot do. For most of our students, high school sports will be the last time they ever step on that field. Many NFL players who you would consider very much proficient in their ability area in football, when they're done playing, they have an extremely hard time transitioning out of no longer playing football and into a healthy lifestyle.
NEXT> Carolyn Hamilton: Often they don't transition well at all because they've never known anything other than football. So to say that a kid is going to get a credit for playing a

[8875-64] Carolyn Hamilton | Public commenter, Ward 1; physical education teacher, Stevens High Sch | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: I created a unified track program. We brought home a unified basketball state runner up championship. I against D1 schools because unified is across the board. The only team we lost who was keen, who's D1. I consider that a championship where a D3 school.
TEXT> I have put myself out there and dedicated myself to this school district when I had absolutely nothing. I knew I had no commitment here  at all. I have put these unified teams together.  I have coached middle school softball, J.V., boys and girls soccer. I, I now volunteer as the assistant varsity girls soccer coach. I have read pep rallies, student council, full day winter carnival, spirit weeks, dances. I even have an exchange student right now. I attend the majority and I don't know very many other people other than the athletic director that goes to more sporting events, school plays, concerts, and I still coach three seasons. I want to be a part of Steven's future, a very dedicated part of enriching the lives of these students here at Stevens. But I believe that the students also deserve a full  time position from myself as their physical education teacher. And I don't want to continuously come back here  or be called into my principal's office  year after year after year and be told, yep, you're up for being cut again. Because to me, I came here for this to be my career, for this to be the place I stayed. And I really hope that  somehow you guys  and the superintendent and everybody involved can somehow work together, figure this out, because I think that every program at the high school is legitimate and should stay, and is important for the education of our students. Thank you.
NEXT> Brian: Hi, everybody. My name is Brian. I came tonight to discuss how important Mrs. Hamilton's position really is. This is coming from somebody that's never had her as a teacher.

[8875-65] Brian | Public commenter, Stevens High School student (first name only: 'My na | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: really hope that somehow you guys and the superintendent and everybody involved can somehow work together, figure this out, because I think that every program at the high school is legitimate and should stay, and is important for the education of our students. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi, everybody. My name is Brian. I came tonight to discuss how important Mrs. Hamilton's position really is. This is coming from somebody that's never had her as a teacher.  And, I'm taking another gym credit this year, and I still will not have her as my gym teacher. But I just want to talk about how important she is, not only to somebody, not only to a student that's never had her as a teacher,  but how important she is to the kids that she has. I want to give you a little bit of background about myself, and I'm pretty sure that Mr. Bezos can back me up with a lot of this, as he is the special education coordinator, I believe. So last year I went up to Mrs. Berry. I had a free block as a junior, and I didn't know what I wanted to fill it with. And she was asking me, what are you passionate about? And I told her, well, Mrs. Berry, I already have my four English credits. I already have my four science credits. I mean, I think that I want to try something new.  So for a credit, I was able to work one on one during my whole every single day during fourth quarter downstairs with special education as a one on one.
NEXT> Brian: And, that's going on top of being in there every single Friday during my peer outreach program. And this was doing not only school work, not only health classes, not

[8875-67] Brian | Public commenter, Stevens High School student (first name only: 'My na | 2017-01-18
PREV> Brian: wouldn't even talk to me. The first two months I was there, every single day I'd be like, hey, Michaela, how you doing? I'd work with her. I'd try to make funny jokes, but I just looked like a funny guy over there to her.
TEXT> And then one day,  finally, I broke through and we had a conversation. While playing basketball on her team. She made a basket. She got excited, I got excited, we gave a high five, and then it just started working out  and going back to what happened last year. Once the kids found out that Mrs. Carter  had lost her spot as the adaptive physical education teacher,  it was not only a difficult transition for them to make. Already knowing Mrs. Hamilton and knowing that Mrs. Hamilton was going to take over that position, it was still hard for them. Mrs. Carter has not only been there for the students, as a gym teacher, as a health teacher, but she's there as a one on one teacher in this is Mrs. Hamilton filling Mrs. Carter shoes. Now, although Mrs. Carter is still there in the classes. This is Mrs. Hamilton now teaching these classes. That was Mrs.. A year ago. Mrs. Hamilton already went over what she did for the community. But the unified sports she does is like an extra home for these kids. Instead of going home and doing everything that's do on a normal basis, they get to do extracurriculars that they  dream of.
NEXT> Brian: Instead of them coming to watch us do our extracurriculars, they get to physically go out there and participate while we go out there to watch them participate in these

[8875-68] Brian | Public commenter, Stevens High School student (first name only: 'My na | 2017-01-18
PREV> Brian: already went over what she did for the community. But the unified sports she does is like an extra home for these kids. Instead of going home and doing everything that's do on a normal basis, they get to do extracurriculars that they dream of.
TEXT> Instead of them coming to watch us do our extracurriculars, they get to physically go out there and participate while we go out there to watch them participate in these extracurriculars. And these are the extracurriculars that I didn't create. These Mrs. Barry didn't create these. Mr.. Mr. Beaupre didn't create these, but these are the creations of Mrs. Hamilton outside of her school work. These kids get something to look forward to every single day. It's not Mrs. Hamilton in the halls. It's. Hey, Coach Hamilton, I can't wait to see you at practice tonight. Or. Hey, Coach Hamilton, do you remember that shot I made last night in my basketball game? Or Coach Hamilton? I can't believe I got my new personal record in track. This is coming from somebody that's never had her as a student. But I can't imagine how these kids would feel knowing that they just lost Mrs. Carter, even though she is still there. But imagine not being able to see Mrs. Hamilton in the classroom, outside of the classroom, not being able to talk to Mrs. Hamilton about a problem they're having because they're so comfortable seeing her for hours during a day period,  or not being able to see her on that Saturday during a track meet, because they're so excited that the school weeks finally over there, so excited that they finally get to see Coach Hamilton at one of these track meets, that they get to
NEXT> Brian: go run off their problems, that they get to get away from everyday life, that they get to go out and participate in something. It's just unbelievable what Miss Hamilton

[8875-69] Brian | Public commenter, Stevens High School student (first name only: 'My na | 2017-01-18
PREV> Brian: or not being able to see her on that Saturday during a track meet, because they're so excited that the school weeks finally over there, so excited that they finally get to see Coach Hamilton at one of these track meets, that they get to
TEXT> go run off their problems, that they get to get away from everyday life, that they get to go out and participate in something. It's just unbelievable what Miss Hamilton has done. And if her position happened to be absent next year, I can't imagine how these kids would feel, especially me personally knowing every single one of them. I. I don't know how I would be able to comfort them, but I don't know how you are going to be able to fill the shoes of a person that is so unique and spectacular. This is coming from somebody that has never even had her in the classroom. And that's all I have to say. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[8875-73] Barbara Richards | Public commenter, Ward 3; accounting and business instructor, Sugar Ri | 2017-01-18
PREV> Barbara Richards: gone into the three year honors program. We've had students who have graduated from those institutions, and they've received their bachelor's degree, their master's degree. And we have some students who are working on their CPAs, and their degrees have been in not just accounting.
TEXT> Some have been in business management, business administration, economics, and so forth.  And the good thing for them is  that they're earning more currently  than I am after 40 years with a master's degree. And that's a wonderful thing for them. I'm not complaining.  I'm not,  they have many of our students career in tech. Ed used to be called vocational education, but that isn't a very popular term. So we've gone to career in tech Ed, and that these programs were started so that students could participate in courses that would allow them to be able to find positions in the community, that the community could have a workforce, that they could have productive employees. As a result of students taking courses in the career and tech ed programs. And I'm happy to say that we have been able to do that. We've had many students who have gone right from high school into many of the businesses in Claremont, the Upper Valley, those who have graduated from their programs in college, have gone to work in Boston, Manchester and many other cities.  So we do provide a viable workforce.
NEXT> Barbara Richards: I've had students who've had the opportunity for cooperative education, which meant that they not only earned credits while they were, earning their accounting, but they also could earn an

[8875-74] Barbara Richards | Public commenter, Ward 3; accounting and business instructor, Sugar Ri | 2017-01-18
PREV> Barbara Richards: students who have gone right from high school into many of the businesses in Claremont, the Upper Valley, those who have graduated from their programs in college, have gone to work in Boston, Manchester and many other cities. So we do provide a viable workforce.
TEXT> I've had students who've had the opportunity for cooperative education, which meant that they not only earned credits while they were, earning their accounting, but they also could earn an additional credit for the work that they were learning at a job site. And many of the students would get jobs as juniors, as seniors, higher paid, far above the minimum wage. And then many times they were hired by those employees when they came back from college. So it was a viable workforce for  the people in the community. Not only do we have with the running start, but we also offer leadership opportunities as a career in tech ed program.  We are to offer students a leadership opportunity, and that's done through what we call CTS, OHS, career and technology student organizations. And so the Future Business Leaders of America is an organization that's offered, and students have an opportunity to network with other students throughout the state by attending fall leadership and state leadership conferences. And at those conferences there are competitions. And at the state competition, students have to take an academic test and they it can be anywhere from 350 to 500 students.  There are a variety of tests, like there could be a test in accounting, economics, personal finance, desktop publishing, word processing, and so forth. So they're competing. I'm happy to say that we've had many state leaders and I've taken students to national conferences.
NEXT> Barbara Richards: We've had students who have gone to Nashville, Tennessee, Anaheim, California, San Antonio, Texas, as a result of how well they did on those, in those competitive events. So I

[8875-75] Barbara Richards | Public commenter, Ward 3; accounting and business instructor, Sugar Ri | 2017-01-18
PREV> Barbara Richards: students. There are a variety of tests, like there could be a test in accounting, economics, personal finance, desktop publishing, word processing, and so forth. So they're competing. I'm happy to say that we've had many state leaders and I've taken students to national conferences.
TEXT> We've had students who have gone to Nashville, Tennessee, Anaheim, California, San Antonio, Texas, as a result of how well they did on those, in those competitive events.  So I would like you to reconsider the cut that is being viewed for this position, whether it be me or someone else. I just think it's a travesty that we would take away from this wonderful technology center and the opportunity that students have either to  learn, skills that they want to for their personal use or if they want it to become their vacation, or they want to not go into work immediately from high school, but they want to go into a college program. I just think, I would hope that everyone would consider that reduction because it is a viable program and it's proven itself over the years. Unfortunately, as a result of the student population lowering the enrollment in the elective courses, which career in tech education is, then there's not as much of a sign up. I would at one point had hoped that career in tech at at least one semester would have been required.
NEXT> Barbara Richards: Of all students attending Stevens High School, I think that any course that was offered through, our sister campus in Newport or this campus is viable for any student, whether

[8875-76] Barbara Richards | Public commenter, Ward 3; accounting and business instructor, Sugar Ri | 2017-01-18
PREV> Barbara Richards: the student population lowering the enrollment in the elective courses, which career in tech education is, then there's not as much of a sign up. I would at one point had hoped that career in tech at at least one semester would have been required.
TEXT> Of all students attending Stevens High School, I think that any course that was offered through, our sister campus in Newport or this campus is viable for any student, whether they're considering career in ticket or some other,  pathway.  And so that's why I have come at spur of the moment. I've heard rumors that this position may be being cut. And so I would request that you reconsider that. And I know that as I look about that, I  have current students here. They didn't know that I was coming, but I have current students, I have former students, I have students of students that I've had, and I'm almost on the great grandchildren. So that's a bit of a concern to me. But I just have to say that for me, this is how I got into, my profession is that I took all the required courses I needed for college, and then I filled in with business electives, and I had two wonderful teachers, and they allowed me the opportunity to try teaching accounting. I did it, and they said, why don't you go to school to become a teacher? And that's what I did. And I've never looked back and I've really enjoyed it. So I hope that we could offer this service to the students and the community of Claremont. Thank you for your time.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Thank you. I did a question about, I guess on the presented budget items.

[8875-81] Kiara Knight | Public commenter, Stevens High School student and unified track athlet | 2017-01-18
PREV> Kiara Knight: significant amount of support outside of the classroom. After teaming up with Mr. House, Stevens old athletic director, Miss Hamilton started what is now called our Unified Sports Teams. These teams give the adaptive kids a chance to excel and break out of their shells.
TEXT> As athletes, we team up with these kids and compete against other unified teams in sports such as basketball and track. Miss Hamilton would be a terrible loss to not only the school as a whole, but to the adaptive program as well. She has shown so much dedication to both students, her own students, and to the adaptive kids, and witnessing the kind of things that happen while in practice are on the team. It's really heartbreaking to know that these kids might have to lose one of their favorite teachers walking in the hall. As Brian had said before, they really take on to Miss Hamilton. They love her and they look up to her, and it kind of goes in with the routine. They need that routine in their life. It's it's like for me, it kind of think of when I go away and my cats are back at home and they're thinking, oh, where did my humans go? I feel like that's kind of what runs through their head. They don't take in the fact that she's gone and they're really it's really going to be heartbreaking to watch them if she leaves. She's been a huge help to not only me and my sports.  I've always had a rough time with physical education, and I've always been lost in the kind of idea of healthy, what's healthy and what's not.
NEXT> Kiara Knight: And I've now taken three courses with Miss Hamilton and it's really showed me what is healthy. She showed me I'm not a gym person, but, you know, she takes

[8875-82] Kiara Knight | Public commenter, Stevens High School student and unified track athlet | 2017-01-18
PREV> Kiara Knight: heartbreaking to watch them if she leaves. She's been a huge help to not only me and my sports. I've always had a rough time with physical education, and I've always been lost in the kind of idea of healthy, what's healthy and what's not.
TEXT> And I've now taken three courses with Miss Hamilton and it's really showed me what is healthy. She showed me I'm not a gym person, but, you know, she takes you in and through those other courses that we've started like fitness and nutrition or just lesser gym classes, you know, they take you in and personalize and they show you that everybody can have a healthy lifestyle. You don't have to go in and do a gym class and play basketball or dodgeball. And that's really helped me in the long run. And I think that you really need to two teachers to fill that expectation. As she said, there's a lot of students in the school, and me personally, I struggled finding time to put my gym credits in already with two teachers, and so it should be a huge loss not only to the school, but to the kids. Thank you.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Thank you.

[8875-85] Kyle Grant | Public commenter, Stevens High School student council president (self- | 2017-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> My name is Kyle Grant, and I'm also here to talk about the path of Caroline Hamilton and the physical education position.  I am first year  player on the unified basketball team,  and  I haven't had Miss Hamilton as a teacher myself. But just getting to know the students that are on the team as the athletes, it really shows their confidence. I asked a student just stopped a random student in the hallway and asked if she ever had Miss Hamilton and what she thought, and she told me  from word. From word. She was a great teacher and we did games and gym. That made me love to go to school when I had her, and I loved to exercise. I think that really shows that. How much of an impact that Mrs. Hamilton has on a student, because I didn't go and search for a particular type of student that would really say something nice about her. I chose a student that, like I said, just stopped in the hall and a lot of students don't live to exercise. And I know for a fact that this one student should not big into sports.
NEXT> Kyle Grant: She's never played on the sports team. Acting is her thing. And just to say that Mrs. Hamilton is the reason why she loves to exercise, I think is very

[8875-86] Kyle Grant | Public commenter, Stevens High School student council president (self- | 2017-01-18
PREV> Kyle Grant: that would really say something nice about her. I chose a student that, like I said, just stopped in the hall and a lot of students don't live to exercise. And I know for a fact that this one student should not big into sports.
TEXT> She's never played on the sports team. Acting is her thing. And just to say that Mrs. Hamilton is the reason why she loves to exercise, I think is very important. I am also on the student council. I'm the current president of it, and last year Mrs. Hamilton was done with being the advisor, and we took in a new advisor. And to be honest, she did, but didn't know a whole lot about student council. So last year's president and this year as myself, we come to her a lot and ask how she did certain things and just kind of sit down and talk to her and things that we are worried about doing, and she really makes it a lot easier. On not being so stressed. And with the unified basketball, she makes all students feel important and needed, like, we matter. She doesn't make she doesn't really make like the athletes feel any different. She treats us as  treats them as they are regular person.  And she's not biased with all members that, like I said, are treated the same. And she creates and builds confidence in each of the members on the Unified Team. Every time they make a basket, they run to her asking for a high five because they know that they that Mrs. Hamilton genuinely cares about her.  So that's all I have to say. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[8875-88] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you.
TEXT> Anybody else from the citizens want to comment? But what's going twice? Before before you guys leave? Because I'm sure a lot of you are going to probably even get started. I just want to say thank you to everyone that spoke and everyone that's here and this this meeting, the last one. You know, I was sitting here thinking, we've been talking a lot about this as a group of what's different this time. We seem to be digging deeper into the budget, and we're really going line by line. We're trying to find it. And it hit me tonight as I'm listening, it's you. It's this, you know, with nobody here. It's a mechanics. It's nothing we do with stuff. When you guys are here, you put a face to the change. You put a face to the money. You put a face to everything, emotion and face. And it does make a difference. I told somebody this after the meeting last time, too. It makes a difference when you're here. It makes a difference when you stand up. And to the teachers, I appreciate it. But to the kids, I appreciate it even more. That's why I'm proud of Claremont.
NEXT> Chris Irish: It's what you guys are bringing to the table. So thank you for coming. And don't ever stop making your fight. I mean, I can't make any promises, but I

[8875-101] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey LeClair has do | 2017-01-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: and maintenance and getting the explanation from all of the different administrators and department heads who control these individual lines about what is the content of those lines. So prior to this process, I didn't know personally what was in all 299 of those lines.
TEXT> I, I can now tell you what's in all of those lines, but I did not know prior to now. So so we certainly can go through line by line. There were some areas in which the we'll just say saw and or administration and board for sake of conversation, which the, the, the administration and the school board agreed in the reduction or was part of the we both kind of came to the same spot. So I don't know if we wanted to discuss those or not. And then there's some areas where, for instance, if we zero all new equipment lines, then it does not make sense to zero all replacement equipment lines. Because if you don't have any money in the budget to repair things that break and you don't have any money in the budget to replace things that break, we could end up in a scenario where we don't have things, and sometimes we need things to be able to deliver programs. So, it's not to say you have to.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Well, the board can choose to do with that what they wish. But, you know, something to consider is if you're not going to buy new things, then you have

[8875-164] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey LeClair has do | 2017-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Have a. So we're starting with line six six.
TEXT> Are we good for the sake of conversation? Are we talking Excel software line number six, or are we going to go by account numbers?
NEXT> Chris Irish: I for me, because I'm looking right at it, you're looking right at it. And anybody else will. Problem I have with Chromebooks. They can't look at it Excel spreadsheet.

[8875-205] Michael Lansing | Bluff School administrator, likely principal (LeClair calls on 'Michae | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: the explanation that I just heard. So my question, I guess, is if there's nothing in this line, will that affect you being able to to do the programs that you do? Sounds more like these are the what ifs scenarios potentially for the year.
TEXT> Yeah. Can I can we run an effective if the question is can we run an effective guidance department. You know without this line the answer is yes. Is it as effective? Who knows. Right. There's that that's the part that's challenging, I think. And I know you know this, but in bluff we get we get a lot of, you know, where we get a lot of new kids every year. And a lot of those kids have specific needs. And, yeah, it's stuff we need to get. And if it doesn't come from here, it may come from something else. And this has been a nice way to to allow my guidance teacher to, to, to get that stuff. But to answer your question, can we get through that? Sure.
NEXT> Chris Irish: What I should have phrase it better. So it wasn't a targeted piece of equipment?

[8875-260] Doug Beaupre | Athletic Director, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Doug Beaupre, a | 2017-01-18
PREV> Alex Herzog: What is The Athletic? Because I'm new to this and, you know, I've worked in colleges, so I'd like to know, what do you guys do for sponsorships. Do you get revenue from sponsorships as well?
TEXT> The only the only money that we get back right now is we do have,  a company in West Lebanon who takes the team pictures and the individual pictures, and we get 10% of of what they, they collect.  There is a, there is a company that I've worked with at my previous job and, I would like to continue the sports posters and again, we would get a percentage of, of what they, what they receive. But, we don't have  and we'll, we'll ask for like, for example, we have coming up with Fall Mountain, we have the hoops for Hope, where we'll be collecting, money for the Norris Cotton Cancer Center. And, and then what we will do is we'll go, we'll get sponsors so that the kids will have the pink warm up, jerseys with the hoop for Hope logo each each year we plan on having something a little bit different, you know,  and we'll have Stephen's and Fall Mountain on that. But as far as sponsorship, that's.
NEXT> Marion: I can add a quick part on that. I don't know if the Stephen's cards would count as a sponsorship, but we do connect with local businesses. So we saw

[8875-276] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-01-18
PREV> Doug Beaupre: and but it's for, you know, when we'll head down a Concord in a couple weeks time with the scholar athletes and, and we'll use, we'll use a, we'll use some of that money so that we can take them out to lunch and, and.
TEXT> Any of the pins left. What's that? Do you have any of the pins left, or are they still are? I had pins made a couple of years ago for the student athletes that go on their varsity letter, there should have been some left. If not, we should be getting more.
NEXT> Doug Beaupre: I haven't, I haven't seen those.

[8875-282] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-01-18
PREV> Doug Beaupre: Stevens.
TEXT> Cardinal pin for all the kids. Got it two years ago and I had a few left that I handed off, but obviously to get to you.
NEXT> Doug Beaupre: But yeah.

[8875-484] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey LeClair has do | 2017-01-18
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Some of those files have some and yeah, you've got you've got in one student's file and you have so many different departments. So if we were like going electronic someday, it has to be kind of.
TEXT> So we haven't arrived operated with that. The printing costs are the bulk of the printing costs, and all of the schools are not actually copying at this point, papers for things like handing out to the board, but more, the student planner agenda that all of the kids at the elementary that have the  handbook in them as well, at the middle school, again, it's the student agenda and the high school, the program of studies. So that's where those things are, duplicated. Now, much of that is online. So that's another area where we can really move to be more electronic. Honestly, I suggestion my husband had after coming home from a recent meeting was can we have a student create an app for their phones that becomes the handbook and agenda and all of that. And so we're moving in that direction again, we haven't arrived yet. So we're able to reduce those costs and you'll see that, you know, the $8,000 printing line at CMS was reduced today by $3,000 to be more reflective of what is necessary. But we. Haven't.
NEXT> Chris Irish: We 1 to 1 with technology. Yeah.

[8875-487] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-01-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: No not.
TEXT> Completely because one of the issues is you you hit on it. You know, we've started I found it one of our teachers would, you know, copying pieces of the textbook and handing out copies and would make one copy emailed to all the kids PDF. They pull it up on their laptops that every classroom has no more paper.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: They're not there yet.

[8875-626] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-54]; chair: 'everyt | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: Well, I guess my thought was we just we just go with it, as is the the 13th of March. That way, if he chooses, we're not going to fill the seat. If he chooses to come and be part of in March, he can.
TEXT> On behalf of the board, I could send Brant a letter discussing or explaining what happened tonight and indicating that his term would be up until the 13th of March.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yep.

[8884-19] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Brian Rapp: Please do. Yeah.
TEXT> Address to the members of the House Education Committee on behalf of the Claremont City Council and the Claremont School Board. I support HB 525, the annual Reduction of Education Stabilization grants will not only negatively impact the school district's ability to deliver an adequate education, but also the city's economic growth. Though we are independent governing bodies, we are dependent upon the same tax base, which has been stressed in recent years due to a number of factors to include a loss in city valuation, decreased state aid and rising personnel costs. During our last revaluation, Claremont lost approximately $110 million in valuation, increasing our tax rate over $5 due to a decrease in state aid overall. Claremont is now responsible for a greater portion of employee retirement benefits, higher percentages of capital improvement costs, and an increased share  of educational costs. In addition, rising health insurance costs and the need to pay competitive wages has resulted in personnel budgetary increases. These factors have contributed to Claremont holding the highest tax rate in New Hampshire, and the ability of our tax base to fund more increases is exhausted. In recognizing this, the city recently halted any spending of discretionary funds, any hiring freeze. In addition, we are considering a 5% budget decrease for the upcoming year. Currently, the Claremont School Board is making cuts to its budget so that there will be no impact to the tax rate in FY 18.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: However, these measures are not sustainable over the long term. The real solution rests with the growth of our current tax base, which cannot happen if local taxes continue to

[8884-116] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: children ages 1 to 2. And if you recall, in the data and the presentation, we were not anywhere near reaching those goals. We were in the 57% tile for one year olds and 29%, I believe, something like that in the two year olds.
TEXT> So the the state goal is 100% screening of children 0 to 6. And we as a community decided because of the the health implications and what is costing us in terms of not just money, but the ability for these children to thrive in an educational scenario. We have to put a stop to this, but we don't even know what we're dealing with if we're not even getting the screening done. So that was priority one. Let's implement a system that is, you know, that reaches our community wide goal, which reflects the state's goal of 100% of children 0 to 6. So as a result of that lunch and learn with a pediatricians at the hospital, their screening rates have skyrocketed in the last 12 months. Remember, only December and January are reflective of this new learning opportunity that they had. But in the last 12 months, the hospital pediatricians screened 137.  But in the last two months, in January, in December and January, 46 was a part of the 137. So in two months they've accelerated the screening process. But it's clear that,  training the pediatricians at the hospital is not going to achieve our 100% goal community wide, because not all children are seen by the pediatricians at the hospital.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So we have to broaden our screening, ability. And but I'm going to get ahead of myself. So anyway, that happened. The screening rates have increased at the hospital. Then

[8884-117] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: part of the 137. So in two months they've accelerated the screening process. But it's clear that, training the pediatricians at the hospital is not going to achieve our 100% goal community wide, because not all children are seen by the pediatricians at the hospital.
TEXT> So we have to broaden our screening,  ability. And but I'm going to get ahead of myself. So anyway, that happened. The screening rates have increased at the hospital. Then the next thing, because the hospital did do that lunch and learn they now met,  one of the criteria to receive free of charge because  Gail, through her office, applied for a federal block grant, they are now receiving a  lead,  a lead testing machine that's valued at $2,500. So now the hospital is going to be getting that. And it's remember, it's the portable one and you just you don't have to do a blood draw and all that. So the kids are more receptive to it. But that's portable. So the hospital is going to be able to assist us in screening kids not only that come to the hospital, but are in other areas of the community. So,  the end that came with the test kit, which is provides about 144 free tests. So I was thinking, and this is where the members of the school board really need to weigh in. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we could achieve that goal and set a school board policy in place, so that you're ready to get 100% screening of children entering kindergarten?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: The the intent is to have that be a requirement?

[8884-132] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Before school starts.
TEXT> Actually this current year, what happened was we delayed the start of school for kindergarten students. So  the teachers in and the rest of the students start on the same day, and then we spend those first three days or so,  conducting the screenings, having an open house for kindergartners and their parents within the school. So there's more of a  developmentally appropriate transition into full time care. Many of our kindergartners have never been in a full day structure setting before, so we do a bit of a transition and and the feedback from the teachers has been very positive about that. Excellent.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may, the the the budget process is coming to to closure soon, which makes me happy. But we'll fill that void very quickly with working on this policy,

[8884-140] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yes. Yes.
TEXT> So the idea would be these are students close soon to become of age. We're going to be going out in the workforce working in these type of, you know, construction and plumbing and, you know, these technical fields. And why not put into the curriculum. It would take perhaps eight hours over two school days training. They would provide the training and all of the there would be no cost to the school district. It would the only  criteria would be just give us 8 to 8 hours in your curriculum in your day, and we'll give you all of the training. And that way, these kids could already be certified to be RFP certified. And then they could, you know, do what they needed to do without exposing themselves. And the people that they're in the area that they're working into. Any lead poisoning, this hasn't been done anywhere else in the state. If we can make it happen here, it's a way to lead the effort.
NEXT> Unidentified: I look forward to that. Yeah.

[8884-156] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (absent at roll call, arrived later) | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Oh, the data shows that, right.
TEXT> So we know so so I think that that's going to be an important way, I think, to push this bill, because I do I think it will be a little bit more controversial or maybe not controversial, but there might be a little bit more hesitation to support it because it could be economically impacts in certain areas. But on the other hand, I think the best way to get support for it is it, you know, we are all paying for it and especially these kids. And I think so that's I think something that tying it almost to the school costs would be a good way to get a lot of legislators and a lot of communities behind it in the same way.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Well, they there is a commission at the state level who's been studying this topic of, you know, lead poisoning, screening, prevention exhaustively. Part of that commission is comprised of

[8884-157] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Patrick Adrian: paying for it and especially these kids. And I think so that's I think something that tying it almost to the school costs would be a good way to get a lot of legislators and a lot of communities behind it in the same way.
TEXT> Well, they there is a commission at the state level who's been studying this topic of, you know, lead poisoning, screening, prevention exhaustively. Part of that commission is comprised of large land landlords, small landlords, and many of them have been very aggressive in finding language that would be acceptable to that industry, because they do want,  people to support this. They they don't want. It's most effective when you get people that want to  abide by the, the law. Because otherwise if you don't do that prep work and that grassroots support work, it's going to go underground. And that doesn't help us. So,  I think a lot of your concerns will be addressed when the bill is actually released. The language is acceptable to the commission. And like I said, they just did their final negotiations at 4:00 yesterday. So my request to the delegation and please chime in would be once we know what that bill number is and it's been released, please, anything that you can do to help us,  know where that bill is going when we have to testify.  The data is very compelling that this has implications, cost implications not only to the school district, but to the community as a whole. Not to say anything about the fact that this is about poisoning our kids and and it's irreversible. And it's, you know, we can prevent that. We will be doing a lot for people.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Yes. I was wondering what the number was, but you said there's still no and no number on this bill.

[8884-160] Unidentified | Unidentified - State Representative, Sullivan County delegation (name  | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: She couldn't give it to me when I asked her. So as soon as I have that, I'll send it to you.
TEXT> Okay. If you find out, I did go to one of your last joint meetings in November with the presentation. I said I was here for most of it and I found it very interesting. Learned a lot, but very disturbing and a bit depressing, to be honest with you. But I think it's important that we as legislators know what's going on, what we can do to stop it. But it's not an easy issue because we have so many buildings here in Claremont with lead paint, and you want to protect the kids, but I think some landlords and some are not going to be worry about the cost. I'll be, you know, looking at it from the other side. But I think we've got to do something to get rid of this hazard.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Well, I think Councilor Raymond he, his company works with installing windows and.

[8884-162] Keith Raymond | Claremont City Councilor (addressed as 'Councilor Raymond' and 'Keith' | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Well, I think Councilor Raymond he, his company works with installing windows and.
TEXT> We have to be we are certified and we have to test on. You're required. And the problem out there is, you know, when I go, you go out to sell a window and you find it. And somebody like you said, the landlord issue is a problem. So it's a very expensive to do the cleanup. So it drives the cost up. And so they don't do the job. And then, you know, they find somebody that will do it for next to nothing. So that's what happens. But you know so it's there's a lot of people that aren't certified and just not a paying paying attention to it. So just it's all about education, teaching these people out here. It's the right thing to do. We're doing it for our children in our community.
NEXT> Unidentified: So yeah, I think even that that.

[8884-197] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-01-24
PREV> Keith Raymond: maintenance, what you got to do. You got to cover everything up in the room. You got to have the Hepa vacuums to clean up the mess. You got to have the wipe downs. You know, the guys, it's not that hard to do, really.
TEXT> So to the mayor's point, though, to me, the pipe dream in my head would be we have it as part of our tech center program. Some of our kids are certified. We find it landlord. It has the issue. He can now hire our tech center kids to go out and do the job as part of their community service or whatever. There's there's a possibility once they're certified.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Counselor.

[8884-214] O'Connor | State Representative, Claremont delegation (surname only on record, 'R | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Anybody else? Representative O'Connor?
TEXT> You know, I think it's, again, another issue that crosses party lines. Yeah. It's all about children. Yeah. Whatever we can do to keep the children safe. You know, I fully support.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay. Thank you.

[8884-221] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: regard to their budget. But I would like to say, having seen the effort that they are making on the 18th, I would like to commend them for, doing a lot of work, trying to find the money to keep, the tax rate from increasing.
TEXT> So  it's it's been a lot of work  the school board has gone through. We've had a couple of  budget meetings where we just sat down and went line through line, and  we've worked very hard to to find the money  without affecting  children's education. And we've done what we can do,  not affect staffing. And  after this meeting, we're going to  go over  some recent reductions  that the the administration has worked on. Saturday, the board had another meeting where we came up with some directives and some actions that we wanted the administration to go by. And,  they've done some work the past two days. And like I said, we'll be looking at that  after this meeting. So we invite you to also stay for that.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Thank you.

[8884-226] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: amount of time, 63%. Also an elderly person. And then I checked another property that had, you know, working couple children in the home and their taxes went up 57%. So it's not an isolated case. And, there's a lot of work to be done.
TEXT> And I know the council is well aware of the needs in the community as far as infrastructure needs. And I know that the school board is well aware of the needs, their educational needs of the children. So I can't say enough how significant this is for both our governing bodies to be working together, because I think there are some things that we can do differently in the future to kind of. Give some relief to this. While the state hopefully grapples with the idea they have a revenue problem in many cases and they've got to come to a solution. So in the meantime, collaboration is the key. And developing partnerships, public private partnerships, that's what's going to  allow this community to grow economically. And that is the bottom line goal, I believe for this community is to grow the tax base. We can't cut our way out of this that we just can't. We cannot. So, I've talked to on the way back to Concord today, the superintendent and I talked about, you know, what are some of the things that might be possible, to do differently. And, and one of the things that we could do is, I don't know, is your CIP developed yet at this point for the school district?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: No, no.

[8884-255] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Unidentified: I mean, I met with.
TEXT> The sugar River Valley Regional Tech staff yesterday, and  one of the concerns that I need their help with as we go forward is improving the access  of this facility for our students.  We didn't talk about adults that you're describing, but this is a wonderful facility. And historically, there have been student access issues. Can't fit it into their schedule. We're looking at,  creating another high school schedule for the fall of 2018. It's going to be done with the faculty administration, the the teachers association working together. And part of that  I we must include part of that to to result in an improved access. And and Nick, I hadn't thought about what you've just said, but why should that be off the table as well? Because if we can expand the utilization of this facility, it's absolutely win win. And we have to we have to we even talked it  going over, I think, but we even talked about,  having students have the opportunity. In fact, even the requirement  of having an exposure to certain technology or career tech education programs, even if they are perhaps have a future that is not necessarily in CTE, it still provides them with that background and an appreciation, which is a lifelong skill. So,  you know, Scott Hope is a part of that. We're going to continue that discussion, but this is going to be planning for the fall of 2018.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Councilor Damron.

[8884-260] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Unidentified: If I may just follow up of.
TEXT> Unintentionally, you can have a schedule, school schedule.  But if the school schedule doesn't have the flexibility where students can access the tech center, then they unintentionally  are  blocked. And so our goal for fall of 2018  is to have that kind of discussion where we break down the barriers and we provide a greater exposure. There are some students who may not have an ambition to be involved with CTE, but once they can be exposed to that,  it may ignite an interest. So right now this is a ten mile high view. Absolutely. But as we go forward together,  there must be more of a blending of access. I mean, there has to be. And then there will be or we're just not serving. Our students.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Have a beautiful building, and it's not the way it should be. Yeah, counselor.

