[9073-102] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: There is.
TEXT> A four sided document, two pages on the on the top it says full day kindergarten. It's very important that you be aware  of the following.  The Senate in March passed Senate Bill 191 at the bill that would implement Governor Sununu plan to provide targeted funding for full day kindergarten to communities across the state.  This legislation, by the way, reflects the view of 85% of New Hampshire voters who said that it is critical that we fund for early childhood education and make it a priority. In a November poll commissioned by Save the Children Action Network, what's important to be reminded of is that by the age of five, a child's brain is nearly completely developed. Yet our state pays only half of the cost to adequately educate that kindergarten child. Without full day kindergarten, too many kids fall behind and at a young age and have difficulty catching up to their peers. I'm very pleased to tell you that if this is approved,  the Claremont School District could receive an additional up two additional $3,000. But no, this. But know this. This is not a slam dunk. And as you go through this,  it's going to be important for you to note. And there is a underneath where it says full day kindergarten.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: There are a list of I have on this sheet a listed the Republicans who represent Claremont. There is some discussion. The House leadership in Concord is in opposition to

[9073-103] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: receive an additional up two additional $3,000. But no, this. But know this. This is not a slam dunk. And as you go through this, it's going to be important for you to note. And there is a underneath where it says full day kindergarten.
TEXT> There are a list of I have on this sheet a listed the Republicans who represent Claremont. There is some discussion. The House leadership in Concord is in opposition to this bill. So it's going to be critical that we reach out to moderate Republicans who have shown support for public education in the past. And so you have their names, Francis Gauthier and John O'Connor. Even though it makes sense, even though it's good for kids, it doesn't mean it's going to pass. This is this bill, governor Sununu $18 million biennium plan to fund targeted full day kindergarten is a crucial first step in ensuring that all children have access to full day kindergarten. Now we have full day kindergarten, so this doesn't fit us. Yes, it does fit us though. We have full day kindergarten. We have it because of some strategic restructuring that we did two years ago that enabled the community to implement. In fact, that restructuring was to the point where the the fiscal year where full day kindergarten was implemented. The budget was $14,000 less than the previous year. That was done.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's what strategic restructuring is about. But knowing that we cannot continue that model unless we start eliminating programs. So I just want to emphasize this, and I'm saying this

[9073-104] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: strategic restructuring that we did two years ago that enabled the community to implement. In fact, that restructuring was to the point where the the fiscal year where full day kindergarten was implemented. The budget was $14,000 less than the previous year. That was done.
TEXT> That's what strategic restructuring is about. But knowing that we cannot continue that model unless we start eliminating programs. So I just want to emphasize this, and I'm saying this publicly to the Claremont community, even though it makes sense and it's good for kids, and the Claremont community could benefit by $300,000 to support full day kindergarten, which we are now funding ourselves. This doesn't mean it's going to pass, and we need to be sure that Mr. and Mr. O'Connor,  are aware of that. We certainly could contact other Representatives or senators, but unless they are representatives, unless they are representing Claremont, they may not be, may not, may not be listening with that type of intensity. Senate Bill 191 does not mandate that any community adopt full day kindergarten, but it does provide funding for those that do based upon a formula that incorporates the number of pupils receiving free reduced lunch, and for whom English is the second language. And this goes on to say that targeted funding to communities that need it most is an appropriate way to fund full day kindergarten. I'm hearing the word adequacy, and what's interesting is long before I arrived in Claremont, there was a Claremont suit or lawsuit. And the Supreme Court, I am aware, indicated, yes, it is the responsibility of Concord to support adequate education for all children.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: In truth, the ZIP code of a child has a major impact on the resources. Not to diminish the work of others in the past, but the playing field is

[9073-143] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I believe so, Brian.
TEXT> I made a mistake, by the way, and I omitted mentioning the four Ridge Road robots headed to National Sea perch challenge. In your packet is an article with the pictures  of forage rogue robots.  And they will be here on May 17th to make a presentation. These are Claremont. A lot of them are Claremont students.  And they deserve recognition for their accomplishment,  and unintentionally, with everything else going on, I haven't given them as much attention as I perhaps would. So I've asked to be kept more informed so we can celebrate every student success and looking at their picture. They're a pretty remarkable group of students. They've been here before and we're welcoming them back. May 17th. Wow.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Everybody good? Okay.

[9073-187] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Michelle, did you hav | 2017-05-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anybody else for citizens comments?
TEXT> I just like to say that the, the heart of Claremont met last night as a citizen. And we are getting ready to gear up to start our flower boxes and the kids piling around with the wagons this summer. So be on the lookout. And if you'd like to volunteer, give us a holler at the heart of Claremont or the Post, and we'll have some postings up to. But soon. But just want to be on the lookout for little red wagons and lots of kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9073-212] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher; Saint-Gaudens centennial e | 2017-05-03
PREV> Don Dexter: Or have you considered this resource? So we really hope that teachers will look to us as places where they can have first contact when they need something, in order to connect to their community.
TEXT> So in closing,  what does it look like?  How does it work? Well, in a science classroom, it looks very much like what we've done in Stevens High School already, where students learn about the ecosystem. They learn about the the water table and how the how the landscape works with  together. And then they go and do field studies and they, they do real, meaningful full work. It's not just simply an exercise, place based learning or project based learning. Whatever you want to call it is not taking the kids on a field trip. It's instead it is. It's knocking down the walls and making the community the classroom.  And that it is the  the community engaging with the classroom. So it was like the Civil War project I work with, where I met with the  Civil War  Roundtable in Claremont and had them help me  learn about my students, and I learn about the Claremont soldiers in town and find out what their stories were. And the reason why we came here was not only to tell you about the, the, the initiatives we're working on, but also to ask you to put it in, put it in the the pot of all the things that are brewing right now, and consider ways that that  you can come up with to work with Saint-Gaudens and Sullivan County Extension, because that's how great alternatives to the regular classroom work in the 21st century.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: We all have to think outside the box, think outside the classroom to make school meaningful and relevant and really, really a the most positive learning experience our students can

[9073-213] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher; Saint-Gaudens centennial e | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: in the the pot of all the things that are brewing right now, and consider ways that that you can come up with to work with Saint-Gaudens and Sullivan County Extension, because that's how great alternatives to the regular classroom work in the 21st century.
TEXT> We all have to think outside the box, think outside the classroom to make school meaningful and relevant and really, really a the most positive learning experience our students can have.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Sure.

[9073-308] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher; Saint-Gaudens centennial e | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you very much. Great.
TEXT> I'm going to stay up here because I'm. And I'll start as they come. So you asked us to come back to you, to meet with you, when we got back from youth in government. And so we have some representatives here and my colleague Jill Chastain,  she and I are the advisors in this this, extracurricular activity that Stevens High School has been involved with for years. And every year I've come and begged permission to take Stevens High School's best and brightest lawmakers.  And every year you've granted us permission. And we wanted to just share a little bit of what  youth and government is about. If you're afraid that our children are not getting the  foundations of  civic life, well, you're wrong. Here we have. Next we have the next generation of lawmakers. Why don't you go ahead and pass out the the bills? And, Jill, do you have anything to say?
NEXT> Jill Chastain: I was with the kids this year for the overnight trip because Nancy had her own trip.

[9073-309] Jill Chastain | Stevens High School teacher (honors civics), Youth and Government co-a | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: afraid that our children are not getting the foundations of civic life, well, you're wrong. Here we have. Next we have the next generation of lawmakers. Why don't you go ahead and pass out the the bills? And, Jill, do you have anything to say?
TEXT> I was with the kids this year for the overnight trip because Nancy had her own trip.
NEXT> Unidentified: Literally.

[9073-312] Jill Chastain |  | 2017-05-03
PREV> Kirsten Burlingame: And so.
TEXT> I tried to keep track of what they were doing. And luckily for me, I've had all of these kids in honors civics and  honors civics seems to be a really good feeder program for  youth and government. We also want to try. We've been talking about it for a couple of years, taking some other kids that maybe haven't thought about doing youth and government.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: We'd like to take them with us for pre ledge so they can see what it's like, and then hopefully we can hook them in and make our delegation bigger

[9073-313] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Michelle, did you hav | 2017-05-03
PREV> Jill Chastain: honors civics and honors civics seems to be a really good feeder program for youth and government. We also want to try. We've been talking about it for a couple of years, taking some other kids that maybe haven't thought about doing youth and government.
TEXT> We'd like to take them with us for pre ledge so they can see what it's like, and then hopefully we can hook them in and make our delegation bigger because  as Charlene and pointed out about lobbyists,  having a large delegation going down to youth and government is very valuable in gaining votes and having their votes in their bills and committee to be at the top, rather at the bottom.
NEXT> Jill Chastain: And this was kind of experienced a lot this year in youth and government. The lobbyist I ended up being outside where the lobbyists were scheming the night before the

[9073-314] Jill Chastain |  | 2017-05-03
PREV> Michelle Pierce: our delegation bigger because as Charlene and pointed out about lobbyists, having a large delegation going down to youth and government is very valuable in gaining votes and having their votes in their bills and committee to be at the top, rather at the bottom.
TEXT> And this was kind of experienced a lot this year in youth and government. The lobbyist I ended up being outside where the lobbyists were scheming the night before  the Saturday legislation, and apparently a lot of lobbyists showed up at certain committee meetings and not at others, and bombarded the meetings  all.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: Nine through 12th grade.

[9073-316] Jill Chastain |  | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: Nine through 12th grade.
TEXT> And yeah, and they they knew what they were doing. So it was really interesting to see the lobbyists, you know, eavesdropping and Haiti, you know, this person, we got to talk to that person. We got to, you know, go to that person and talk to them.  So they really do get to live the process in youth and government. And we had  one of our students, a few of our students bills did get through the committee. They did not get heard on the floor.  Nick Stone had a bill that I  know is going out there  on  welfare, which it made it through committee, which I was worried it wouldn't because at first it got tabled. And usually if a bill gets tabled, they don't always necessarily go back to them. But they did. And with some amendments  it did get through committee.  Unfortunately it did not get read on the floor, but it did get heard in the judicial branch  and part of it was considered unconstitutional. And  another part of it, the was constitutional. So Nick's bill got double billing.  And there was another bill. I don't know what one's  all got out there, but, Nathan Savas bill was another one. I was worried I was worried about that bill  not making it again because it got tabled,  but they brought it back and his bill also made it through.  Unfortunately,  Brayden Burt had wrote a bill.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: He wrote a bill that you have in that packet.

[9073-318] Jill Chastain |  | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: He wrote a bill that you have in that packet.
TEXT> Yeah. And it was on  reusable bags. And I thought it was a really good  bill.  Well written. Yeah. And unfortunately, it didn't get through one of the things that our students noticed,  and, and was very true this year of youth and government. All the chairman at youth and government this year were green.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: In committees.

[9073-320] Jill Chastain |  | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: In committees.
TEXT> Yeah. In the committees all the chairman had never been chairman before. And  Marion had pointed out when she was in committee that she was helping out the chairman, even though she was co-chair.  And I got to witness it and I could see her, you know, giving the chair advice. And, and Brayden had the same experience because they weren't as knowledgeable about being chairs, where our students were able to step up and help them.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: Cam Cameron, I want to I would love you to hear what they have to say, but I'm going to give you a lead today. I, when we met and

[9073-323] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher; Saint-Gaudens centennial e | 2017-05-03
PREV> Cameron: the ordinary person to know than what you get in school. So it was definitely a great experience, very enriching to actually play the part and be part of it. Even if you don't intend to get into politics, it's still a great learning experience.
TEXT> Marion, you're you're a senior,  rep here. What what do you get from youth in government?
NEXT> Marion Lovett: So this past year, I attended the United States Youth Senate program, in which two students from every state are chosen and they meet together in D.C., capital. And they

[9073-324] Marion Lovett | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior ('Mari | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: Marion, you're you're a senior, rep here. What what do you get from youth in government?
TEXT> So this past year, I attended the United States Youth Senate program, in which two students from every state are chosen and they meet together in D.C., capital. And they go to the Senate, they meet the president, they go see the Supreme Court. I mean, this is an incredible experience. And  I  thought, these are the best and brightest of America. These are going to be a future leaders. And then I go to youth in government every year. And the similarities between the people are incredible. So when you say like, oh, well, I'm not the top of my class or I wasn't chosen for this United States Senate program, that doesn't mean you still lack the ability to change the world. And these people that youth in government, I mean, if you ever talk to someone our age, people often think they're younger, they're unexperienced or inexperience. They don't understand what they're talking about. And then you go to youth in the government, and then you hear these people and you're just like.
NEXT> Don Dexter: Wow.

[9073-328] Clara | Stevens High School freshman, Youth and Government delegate (first nam | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: And Clara is our engineer. She's a freshman and she she joined up. Clara, did you know much about this program before you started?
TEXT> To be honest, I really didn't. It was actually Miss Chastity who came up to me, and she asked, you're going to join youth in government, right?
NEXT> Unidentified: And I was.

[9073-336] Cameron | Stevens High School student, Youth and Government delegate (first name | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: Come up? Good question. That's the hardest thing isn't it?
TEXT> I picked mine because I had to write a bill and even more comprehensive bill for her class. And that was on, it was on drug use. And so I took that and I,  went toward the opioid crisis for my bill for youth in government. So that's how I got my idea.
NEXT> Marion Lovett: For mine, I'm a huge ego person. I loved healthy environment, but I also saw a huge struggle in New Hampshire with our vacated mill districts. And I noticed that,

[9073-339] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher; Saint-Gaudens centennial e | 2017-05-03
PREV> Clara: can make that can help animals? And I read this article saying that animals are like they're commonly used as cosmetic test subjects, and it affects the animal physically and mentally. So I decided to write a bill banning cosmetic animal testing in New Hampshire.
TEXT> These students would have been very articulate if they had never gone to youth of government. But I would just like to say that because it really is student driven.  It it creates a  presence and a voice that I, you know, that that they don't otherwise get a lot of chance to, to work on. So you guys are very articulate, and we're proud of you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah. Well.

[9073-343] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Well.
TEXT> What is it? One of the handicaps that  a lot of our community members have is that they don't really get a chance to see, to listen, interact with our students. And these three Stevens High School students are just one indicator  of the students, the the young adults that represent the Claremont community. So I just want I, I'm sitting here feeling so proud as if I was your.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Parent.

[9073-353] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Ticking.
TEXT> And a presentation following. There was a lavender two sided piece of paper in your in front of you. And I just wanted you to understand that the New Hampshire State House and its meeting meaning today host a contest  for 20 1617  is now drawing to to a closure. And you can see there's a calendar  of of the timeline. But I did want to compliment what Mary Leavitt said. We have two students  in the Claremont School District who, are moving on. And due to their accomplishment with the  poster contest. Marion was talking about Tyler Sullivan.  A student at Stevens High School. And we also have a Claremont Middle School student, Samantha Pratt. So I'm very, very pleased to publicly congratulate Tyler Sullivan and Samantha Pratt for their accomplishment as as they move forward. As you can see to the next level. And who knows,  we may have student representation  in the state legislative office building and the tunnel between the state House and the state legislative office building in the near future. But regardless, their accomplishment is just another example and represents  our community in the Claremont School District. And I also want to give my thanks to Christine Downing and Kim Goggin,  who facilitated and assisted our students to participate. And I will share with you that there were many, many students from different communities competing, if you will, for this honor. And it's wonderful that two of ours are part of this mix.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Is there any way, after the judging is done, that we could maybe see what they the work that they. Did if they're comfortable sharing?

[9073-451] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Oh, no. I'm finished. Josh, I got nothing else, buddy.
TEXT> So, I want to start with the mission because I like to start with missions. And looking at the mission here for technology, was that it? Be student student focused,  customer oriented, and serving a diverse and technologically focused world or preparing people for that? And those are the things that I highlighted out of the mission. Of course, there's much more there to it, but I really wanted to focus in on student focused, customer oriented, and that that aspect of a diverse and technologically focused world. When I came here, I really wanted to learn more. I really appreciated the board's questions about where have we been, where are we today, and where are we going? So I just started looking at Claremont, and I figured 1700s was a good place to get started.  So, I quickly went through I talked to Colin at the at the Fisk Free Library. He filled me in on all kinds of information. I dug through the Dow, found out all of these materials that I'm sharing with you here. Some of them date back to the 1800s. Some really interesting materials. These are just copies. There are other ones that are there. They're still safe. They've already been collected and put safely into storage.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: But I learned a lot about Claremont in general. Claremont, including the, the Stevens High School, how that came to be. I learned about Perrin Stevens. I learned about how

[9073-458] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Josh Malloy: Now, if you look up here, you'll see blue that's manufacturing. This is what is the primary employment. So if you're looking at a state, what's the primary employment in that state. The red is retail trade and yellow is health care and social assistance.
TEXT> So you can see as this progresses how what people are doing,  just changes over the years. And again, this is where we've been. I'm still in the where we've been category. But I found this interesting because certainly part of what we're doing is we're preparing our kids for what they're going to be doing later on. We talk about a little bit with manufacturing. So manufacturing, I don't know if any of you have heard, but, there's more to it than just jobs are going overseas or some of this other stuff is happening. Because really, when you look at our output and you look at employment productivity, is that top line. That means how much we're actually producing based on how many people are actually employed to produce that stuff. That's manufacturing I want to look at today. Where are we now? So we talk about retail because retail was a big thing in the state, is still a big thing in the state of New Hampshire. 2017. Has anybody heard of any of these stores that are closing down? This is in retail, another sector.  I want to talk a little bit about what's going on.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: If they're not if these jobs are not all going overseas, what's happening? Why are we seeing less people employed? But we're still seeing a crazy amount of stuff being

[9073-466] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Josh Malloy: over again. And I'm going to get to why I'm saying that over and over and over again. So I've done a lot of research. And one of the things I researched was, I don't know if you guys knew, but we have a technology.
TEXT> We had a technology plan. The technology plan expired in 2016. It had a very specific action plan, but that's now done. So we're now we're flying without an action plan. We're flying without a technology plan. There's, there's a tool out there called Future Ready Schools, and we've already taken the pledge to be a part of this future ready schools. And this is really getting our kids into those Stem things, getting our kids ready for the jobs that are going to be there tomorrow. We're in good company. These are all the other school districts in New Hampshire that have taken that pledge. And the next step is actually acting on it. These are the different steps that are involved. The first step is creating that that planning team. And then taking an assessment is step two, taking that information, analyzing where you have some gaps, analyzing your strengths. Where are you strong? Where where are the places that you'd like to work on creating that plan? And then just keep working on it and working on it. It's not. You do it once and it's done.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: You just you keep on working on it. You keep on collaborating, you keep keep on sharing. You keep on creating those connections. So the reason I keep saying collaboration

[9073-468] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Josh Malloy: there as well. So I would love to invite school board member, you're over here, someone from the school board to come and join us. And be a part of this so that you are involved in the planning process and you know what's happening.
TEXT> So it's not you're trying to figure out what's going on.  You're part of the process. You know what's going to happen. You know what we're focusing on, so that we can maintain that focus on the student so that we can maintain that customer oriented focus. And we're preparing our kids for that diverse and technologically focused world. So what? So what's the plan? And I'm still on the technology piece. So the plan is collaborate with stakeholders to develop that plan, establishing consistency and transparency. So I want you to know what you're spending your money on. And I want you to know why we're spending that money. And I want to make sure that technology is integrated into our business. It's integrated into our curriculum. It isn't just an extra that you're you're buying. Because one of the other things I read in reading through all these, these these things that I've seen throughout, throughout the past, is that technology was often an afterthought or technology was and it's in those bigger ones is the one that I'm talking about. Now, a little more recent is that technology, in a lot of cases were put on as a warrant article, or they were put on as an afterthought, or they weren't included in a budget.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: And as we start integrating some of these tools, I just want to express that it is very difficult, to maintain momentum if that spending isn't consistent, if I have

[9073-469] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Josh Malloy: those bigger ones is the one that I'm talking about. Now, a little more recent is that technology, in a lot of cases were put on as a warrant article, or they were put on as an afterthought, or they weren't included in a budget.
TEXT> And as we start integrating some of these tools, I just want to express that it is very difficult, to maintain momentum if that spending isn't consistent, if I have to worry about whether I can bring in contracted services or not next year, that's going to make things very difficult. If I don't know if we're going to be able to buy devices, that's going to make it very difficult. So I want to make sure it's clear to the board, it's clear to the community what we're spending the money on and why it's so important. So curriculum professional development needs to be integrated. We need to be using the technology to actually improve our student education. And that's where I want our plan to focus is  I want our technology evaluation not to be. How many computers did you buy last year or how many gigabits per second are you able to push through your your pipes? All of that's important. We have people for that. They're very good at it. What I want us to focus on is how are we using technology to make the lives of our students better? How are we using technology to support all these different things  that this is just?
NEXT> Josh Malloy: The National School Boards Association says these are things that we think education should be about. How are we in technology supporting that? And that's what I want to be

[9073-470] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Josh Malloy: have people for that. They're very good at it. What I want us to focus on is how are we using technology to make the lives of our students better? How are we using technology to support all these different things that this is just?
TEXT> The National School Boards Association says these are things that we think education should be about. How are we in technology supporting that? And that's what I want to be assessed on. I don't we can talk about how many computers we have. We can talk about how many things are in classrooms. We can talk about all that stuff. And I have those graphs. I can show you those charts, you know, and I can show you all the different answers I got about what is education. But really what it comes down to is prioritizing and efficiently utilizing funding opportunities to support  our plan to support our students. So that's what I really wanted to talk about. Was that future ready program getting people involved? Not only the people here, but people in the community, business leaders, people in our schools, stuff like that. Because that's when I see when I read all this history, that's when things are really taken off. Okay.
NEXT> Unidentified: On the first, love.

[9073-472] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'I'm not defendi | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: On the first, love.
TEXT> Your presentation. One thing I would like to say, and I agree with you, for me, it's about how I want to know that we're using and how we're using it. One thing I was also thinking about would I'd like to see, I think is developing the curriculum. Part of that, is some of, you know what? I saw a lot of opportunities just for your presentation. The way you think about it, where there could be, you know, for some problem based learning relevant to Claremont, because you were looking at, statistics and data analysis math you were looking at you brought in history, you brought in  for me marketing. There was also, you know, we're talking about collaboration. I, we always I always hear a lot about Stem, and that's important to me as well.  But some of the skills that all students need to have,  you brought it up. Collaboration. And a big part. I'm going to speak as the English guy. Communication project based learning is. And  so there's a lot with that in English, with English skills, oral communication, expression.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: But that type of communicative thinking, it's I would love to see that when we're developing technology that would go beyond just thinking about in terms of the science and

[9073-480] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So infrastructure wise, we need. If you want me to just get into the tech wireless access points, we need more of them. Okay.  And, and part of that is it's the foundation. So, I see that we're going to be needing more equipment in our rooms. More, more tools to be able to personalize instruction. So if we really want to get into a targeted,  education where we are looking at where the kids are now, each of our kids really getting each of them to grow, we need to make sure that the tech isn't just going to not work. So if I can't get this thing to light up the screen to show you what I want to communicate to you, we need to make sure that it's easy for our teachers to be able to to use those tools. One is wireless access point. A lot of our older schools are built like bunkers.  And, you know, we we've you've made an investment in wireless access points. But from my perspective, we've got coverage. They're out there, but we don't necessarily have the density that we need to be able to support the number of devices.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Do they need to be in each room or could could they be in the halls?

[9073-500] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - not named on this recordi | 2017-05-03
PREV> Cory LeClair: in every unit, whether that be publishing or accessing information through digital means or whatever that might be. Every unit is required to have a technology component. What? Something that that I've been cognizant of, though, is I don't want to be the end result.
TEXT> I want technology to be the tool to get to a greater end result. And that's very different. It's we're not teaching technology for technology sake. We're teaching content. We're teaching children. Technology is a vehicle to to get there. And students need to know how to engage with technology. Because Josh mentioned, I mean, all of us around the room are using at least two forms of technology, probably tonight at least. And so how do we engage with it, advantageously to, to help our students maximize their learning and personalize their learning. And so we have our technology integrators. One of the things that we are in the process of, of creating and will be implementing prior to the end of the school year is is really establishing a base line. What is being used? Where is it being used? What are what are our staff's perceptions of technology within their classroom, within their use and then where we headed next? So I think to inform our next plan, we really need to know what is our current  reality, because we've done a lot of work in the last several years to put the hardware in place and the systems in place. And so now we need to shift our focus from not completely away from just the hardware and the systems, but to okay, so so now what what are we doing with it and how are we moving it forward?
NEXT> Chris Irish: I think that was one of the things I know we talked about, we were looking for is we get into the budget processes, exactly what we've done in the

[9073-508] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides: calls to order, runs agenda, c | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: If I'm correct.
TEXT> I think I think a lot of people want to make sure that, you know, that our students are getting  and teachers are getting good use out of it. We want to make sure that, you know, being exposed to it is one thing. There's a lot of exposure to technology at home for a lot of these kids. We want to make sure that that it's the teachers are able to engage their their students with this technology. And, you know.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Yeah, well, I think there's.

[9073-517] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: That's the.
TEXT> One I can answer right now. Okay. It's a very simple question right now. My network administrator told me about 60% of our,  of our work orders are related to wireless access issues. So that's an easy one to answer. To go beyond that is more about what you were saying. What do our kids need? I can I can say, yeah, we could use some more of these or, you know, some more of those gizmos, but, what is it really that our kids need to succeed? And that's where tying it into the curriculum, tying it in professional development, making sure our people have the training they need and building this new plant, this future ready plan really helps us to talk about what is it that our teachers need and, you know, making sure that the teachers have the tools they need. So it's not like here, here's.
NEXT> Unidentified: Here's this piece.

[9073-519] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Here's this piece.
TEXT> Of. Technology I want you to start making that make the kids smart. So it's more about how do we support our teachers and how do we make sure the kids are still getting that collaboration, the the soft skills that they need to be able to work with people? You know, I saw this terrible thing where some kids are having trouble recognizing facial, you know, expressions.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Very common.

[9073-521] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Very common.
TEXT> They've come up with an app to teach kids how to recognize facial expressions. And I love technology, but to me, like, maybe that's not the best anyway. So it's important to understand,  you know, that balance. Like you said, it just makes sure you have that balance, know what you need and what's best for the kids. So, you know, I would love for my kids. When I was growing up, I was an honor student and had a backpack that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Was.

[9073-640] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [162, 166]; c | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I have a question for you. What does if June 6th. Tuesday.
TEXT> Well, let me ask you this before we ask, before you answer that. Well, I was going to bring up what what the possibility is or what the expectation of the board's role will be this year in graduation. And I think senior night. And like where I'm going with that is I would like to see the board be more involved in both those nights, especially graduation. If you have an opportunity to be up on that stage, especially when there's a lot of kids that we know coming across. It is. It's a honestly, for me, it reminded me of why I'm here in the first place. When you when you're up there and the kids come across the stage and so are we going to be able to have the if there, if we show up, if the board being up there on stage when we when they come up.
NEXT> Unidentified: Their chairs.

[9073-677] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Five.
TEXT> And these five early release days. These five early release days and the PD days are investing in our most important asset as far as the adults are concerned, which are the skills and quality of our teaching. And so that's the focus. And that has a direct residual impact and benefit for our students. So I do know that every released days and professional development days during the year can be difficult for parents. My hope is that giving them a half a year plus notice, those adjustments can be made. I respectfully ask you to accept this calendar. And so we can release it to the community. Parents have been asking, can we see the calendar? We want to make plans for next year.  So, this has been vetted, and it's really a result of the collaborative work of our of our dedicated teachers and administration.
NEXT> Unidentified: I was just saying to share with you a big word.

[9073-703] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - not named on this recordi | 2017-05-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Would you contracts go out for staff?
TEXT> Most of them are out already. There are three groups that were being finalized. This week.  And so, there,  there. We're waiting to hear back. The  you and letter of agreement staff there. Those contracts should be going out at the end of this week, beginning of next week. Paraprofessionals is the only other group. They were waiting on a call back from the para leadership. And then those are ready to go. Once they heard some, they were just seeking some clarification on a few different points. So those I expect not to speak on behalf of the HR department, but in my conversations with them in the last 24 hours, I expect that all contracts will be out by the beginning of next week.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[9098-17] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-05-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Accept a second.
TEXT> Thank you. Any  comments? Questions? Concerns? All in favor? Aye, aye. Opposed? Perfect. We have our student representative report.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: So, from Stevens High School, we would like to invite the school board to. Lest we forget, the Art of commemoration exhibit opening at Saint-Gaudens on May 19th, 436. This

[9098-22] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: All right. Thank you. Any questions? Comments. Thanks a lot for that. Superintendents report.
TEXT> Thank you. And good evening. Referring to  Mike packet within the school board's packet.  If you look at the third topic, the student events, it's,  Marianne spoke to some of these. It's really quite remarkable the the number of activities and programs going on.  From  earlier  this past week, right through until the last day of school. I would like to just make one comment, though. I'd like to thank Pat Patrick, Adrian and Michelle Pierce, who  volunteered representing the school board  at the Stevens High School Prom grand march that took place Saturday, May, May 13th. I will tell you, it is remarkable how wonderful our students are presented themselves and their appearance. It's just remarkable. And Marion Lovett was was one of  the Stevens High School students. Just just phenomenal.  Great, great representation of the community. They do us proud. They do as proud.  Also, as you can see. There are several  performances. What you don't. Performances, activities  in all the elementary schools. Our middle school and our high school. It would have taken four pages to list all the athletic events that are  going on.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But these student events represent what they call the three days the academics, the arts and the athletics. And and clearly, there's a great deal in our elementary school, our

[9098-23] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: do as proud. Also, as you can see. There are several performances. What you don't. Performances, activities in all the elementary schools. Our middle school and our high school. It would have taken four pages to list all the athletic events that are going on.
TEXT> But  these student events represent what they call the three days the academics, the arts and the athletics. And and clearly, there's a great deal in our elementary school, our middle school, as well as our high school to be proud of, as measured by our students and what they're accomplishing. Also, you'll note that,  last week we had  the Abbey group do a tour of our schools. And they will be in the early June, a school board meeting, making a presentation as we move forward to make a decision regarding  food service for the 2017 2018 school year. Because of the amount of information on on the agenda.  I my hope is that you did have the opportunity to review the  meeting, the needs of all students, especially the adverse childhood experience. And I hope you had a chance also to to,  to look at  the video to at least have a greater awareness. This is a very, very important topic that we need to have in preparation for preparing the budget, as well as  have publicly as well as privately and not public. So the board is aware  of, of this particular issue.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It. And so I look forward I look forward to that discussion with you. But this I want to share with you is not a New Hampshire dilemma. This is

[9098-27] Unidentified | Robotics club (Rogue Robotics) adult mentor, parent of a team member;  | 2017-05-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: The C purge team is here this evening representing, a group of young men and young ladies who in two days are going to be going to Georgia, at a national competition at Georgia Tech. And welcome and congratulations.
TEXT> Good evening, and thank you for giving us an opportunity to share with you before the team shares about the competition. I'd like to take a couple of moments to tell you about our club and about the history of how Sea Perch came to be. We are a after school competition and project based Stem club. We have a mostly middle school club that comes after school and in the fall we have the first Lego League competition that students can participate in. And in the spring we have sea perch. We have several other projects that are non-competition based for these students throughout our school year program. We have about 18  middle schoolers and a few elementary school students come after school. We also have a high school competition team. They compete with Vex robots. They design, build, and program robots that they compete against other teams in our area, and we presently have eight students. These guys do the Vex and the sea perch.  We the beginnings of sea perch happened many, many years ago in a little book that was titled How to Build an Underwater Robot. Several years after it was published, an MIT professor found one of the projects, the one which we now call Seahawk, and he began to use it to get interest in the engineering program at MIT.
NEXT> Unidentified: Many years after that, another professor saw how well the program was doing and wanted to use it to teach teachers how to teach engineering, and he was able to

[9098-69] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: And you want it to go with childhood experiences first.
TEXT> If I could, please, I hope you had the opportunity to review the information in my report. This information was developed by drawing from different sources, also in partnership with TLC,  and working  on the community Focus.  It's been very clear to me over the past six years, that we have a small number of children who have very important and specific needs. And these needs are such that we are being challenged to to work with them effectively. We try different strategies, different approaches. Some are successful, some are not. But but what we've realized is that the intensity seems to be increasing over time.  And, and if you did have the opportunity to review this strong graded relationships between the level of trauma, traumatic stress in childhood and poor physical, mental and behavioral outcomes later in life, let alone during the child's education,  are  major, major concerns. And so, after my six years and working with the elementary, middle and high school faculty and administration, it's time to talk about this publicly.  We're not talking about Claremont. We're talking about a national concern. And I'm not saying that we had the solution and we're going to fix the world, but I am saying if it's not going as well as you'd like or if you have challenges, you can turn your back on it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: You can make excuses and point fingers and blame, or you can say, so how can we address this more effectively? And so that's what this is about tonight as

[9098-74] Melanie Williams | Clinical supervisor, TLC Family Resource Center (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-17
PREV> Melanie Williams: to listen in school if that's what you're doing, what you're experiencing at home. Right. So what can we do so we can be informed? You all have access to information about Aces. So you can read about that and you can know about them.
TEXT> And we can spread that information to the community as well, because it shouldn't just be professionals who know about it. It should be everyone. Because if knowledge is power, right, if we know these things exist, then maybe we can prevent them together and have a stronger community so we can create a safe community. I think Claremont has a lot of good things going for it, and there are it's a pretty safe place to be. I think all of you would agree. You know, we have our issues, but there's some strengths here too, so we can build upon those strengths. That's one thing we can continue educating.  We have institutions here who are trauma informed. How many people have been to trauma informed trainings?  Oh, not a lot. Okay, so we'll keep going. Yeah. Corey has I've seen her in it. But so trauma informed that NC S.N. which is the National Childhood Traumatic stress network says that trauma informed is all parties recognize and respond to the impact of traumatic stress on those who have contact with the system, including the children, the caregivers and the service providers. So everyone's impacted, even teachers, right? Even me. It's hard to go into a home and see these things and not be able to fix it as well as I'd like, but to help people move along the path as what I'm doing.
NEXT> Melanie Williams: So what can you do? We can keep talking. We'll show the movie again. And you can refer to TLC because there are trauma informed systems. The school is coming

[9098-75] Melanie Williams | Clinical supervisor, TLC Family Resource Center (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-17
PREV> Melanie Williams: service providers. So everyone's impacted, even teachers, right? Even me. It's hard to go into a home and see these things and not be able to fix it as well as I'd like, but to help people move along the path as what I'm doing.
TEXT> So what can you do? We can keep talking. We'll show the movie again. And you can refer to TLC because there are trauma informed systems. The school is coming on board. We were at that training with Cassie, and I know that you guys are getting that information out, not just to administrators, but to teachers and to pair us and people who are directly serving these kids so that they can understand trauma and how it impacts a child's day, right, how it impacts their heart and how it impacts their behavior. And some of the behaviors are challenging. If you don't feel safe, you're going to behave in a certain way, right? So we need to help kids feel safe. And that's easier said than done. We can help. You can refer to TLC. You can say, hey, there are some people here who could help. We can go into their homes and and help put some resources in place that can support the family and maybe reduce some of those traumas or stressors that are occurring. We can connect them to West Central, who is. They are trauma informed as well. They know about trauma and can help kids recover from trauma.  Even preschools in our area, there was an initiative called Trauma Informed Early Childhood Services, and even preschool providers were trained in recognizing trauma and how it impacts children and their learning and their brain development.
NEXT> Melanie Williams: And so we're doing well as a community. We can continue going and continue teaching people about trauma, but we're already on the path, which is good news. Yeah, I

[9098-76] Melanie Williams | Clinical supervisor, TLC Family Resource Center (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-17
PREV> Melanie Williams: about trauma and can help kids recover from trauma. Even preschools in our area, there was an initiative called Trauma Informed Early Childhood Services, and even preschool providers were trained in recognizing trauma and how it impacts children and their learning and their brain development.
TEXT> And so we're doing well as a community. We can continue going and continue teaching people about trauma, but we're already on the path, which is good news. Yeah, I think I think we we can keep going. And and this is a discussion, I could tell you lots and lots about trauma and about how it affects the the growing brain and how it affects children's behaviors and their relationships. But there's hope, you know, that's the other thing. So the the movie is really difficult to watch at first because you're getting all this information about how many people are affected by trauma and, and adverse childhood experiences, but then it goes into the science of hope. And one person who understands and believes in a child and listens to them can change their path. Right? If you guys all think right now about one person in your life who understands and listens to you and believes in you, hopefully everyone has that and you can be that for some of these kids and we can help their parents be that because we're in the home and we're talking to their parents about what they've been through and how it impacts their parenting.
NEXT> Melanie Williams: So my message is we all have to work together. I have a lot more information I could talk to you about. I know there's not a ton of time,

[9098-78] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Melanie Williams: more information I could talk to you about. I know there's not a ton of time, so I won't take a lot of your time tonight, but I'm happy to come back whenever and share what I know, and I appreciate you listening. Any questions?
TEXT> Yeah. I just. Want to tell you. Thank you for coming, and I  this is a topic that I feel very strongly about. So I'm glad that our school district is actually starting to discuss it out in the open. And I  and I hope that we keep on talking about it and we keep on making changes and we keep on  doing what's best for kids and teachers and other students because it affects everybody. Exactly. And I just wanted to say your point about how trauma affects the brain,  is probably one of the best things I've ever heard anybody say because,  I think it's important for people to know about chemicals, serotonin,  oxytocin, all those things so that they can better understand that sometimes kids can't even control,  what's what's emanating from them. So I could talk to you for probably hours and hours and hours. But I just want to say I'm stoked that this is a conversation that's going to be happening, happening, and hopefully a lot more frequently.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Not going to be is happening. Yes, I think that's an important distinction.

[9098-88] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Chris Irish: fear, and at least to a lot of other issues as you grow up as an adult, untreated. And so I think that's the message is you have to reach out for help. And if you see something, don't walk past it. Stop it. Help!
TEXT> Exactly. We've been able to do a community film series, and I think that our timing has been a little off because there's conflicts with, you know, baseball and other things this time of year. But,  we showed Paper Tigers and resilience. The TLC showed resilience. We showed Paper Tigers. They're done by the same filmmakers. They're on the a similar topic. And then we last night showed  a film called The Masculine. And all three of these things are connected.  And you'll see actually the same experts in the different films.  But the idea of what you were just speaking to these issues don't go away. Just as we get bigger, they just transform and get potentially more dangerous and more impactful and more debilitating. And so how do we intervene with our children when they're younger to help them have better outcomes later in life? And so all of these,  we have access to regularly so we can do additional screenings and things of that nature.  Probably in the winter months when people are less busy and looking for things to do.  We have one more coming up. Not quite as related to the three, just because, you know, I think it's completely different filmmakers. But, really, on the opioid epidemic and how a local Vermont doctor has addressed that. And so,  that's real to us. Right?
NEXT> Chris Irish: There's a good chance they're connected.

[9098-102] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Cory LeClair: coming out in the next couple of months for those schools who don't have an SS system in place. We already have it written from the first time. It's a good opportunity for us to just, you know, resubmit to the the next funding opportunity.
TEXT> But that's an area that I am keenly focused on based on, some other discussions we're going to be having shortly in the needs of our students that were that we're seeing and knowing what resources are available to help them, and knowing there's not enough resource right now to help all of the kids who need it. So we are looking for,  alternate funding sources to get the resources we need. And not necessarily just money, but also the the staff to be able to do that. Because money is one thing. But if you don't have a, you know, clinical mental health counselor, then you're kind of out of luck.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Your answer raised another concern with me in that we're going to train our existing personnel to do it.

[9098-105] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Cory LeClair: is for a social worker, wraparound facilitator. There is somebody from TLC and West Central and a few other organizations who are sitting on that leadership committee for that project. And so that's a step in the right direction. But we we need more veteran..
TEXT> At some point, I'd like to get some some kind of clinical feedback. Speaking to this, what Corey was just talking about. I think one of my, I guess, one of my  ongoing concerns or just  not concerns for us is, in as we're trying is schools are trying to kind of provide this, you know, the environment in district and we mentioned environment and. I guess I'm trying to wonder whether, you know, I think of kind of environment, the kind of environment for a lot of these students that I've seen, it's it's a school that the environment has a very strong therapeutic component and not just like providing therapeutic services, but the entire school kind of it's the its mission philosophy, the even the academics, the it's all designed with a certain type of,  of to create the kind of environment the students need. And it can be academic, but, it's very it's different from what I've experienced in our schools and in neighboring schools where there's like this part of the building or there's where there's devoted. But when the students leave, it's not there, because the reality is it's our schools are academic driven. And sometimes they they, they're there can be conflict.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So I guess that's kind of an ongoing concern challenge that I see. And and again, this doesn't speak to all students and I mean some, but there are some

[9098-106] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patrick Adrian: schools and in neighboring schools where there's like this part of the building or there's where there's devoted. But when the students leave, it's not there, because the reality is it's our schools are academic driven. And sometimes they they, they're there can be conflict.
TEXT> So I guess that's kind of an ongoing concern challenge that I see. And and again, this doesn't speak to all students and I mean some, but there are some students that we've typically sent out some of these other these outside district, these out of district schools. The problem is are really expensive. But sometimes they're better for those students. And how we're going to address that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Michelle.

[9098-121] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks, doctor.
TEXT> Just before we moved on to the next piece, is there any way we. If we can get this onto the agenda for the joint to the city and board? Because I think what Chris was talking about that that struck a chord with me about the, the support group. And I know, I guess I feel that we need to have we need to be doing more beyond the hours with schools can do. And I know that, you know, I kind of with some of these students, I got the kids, I got involved, I met Robin Woodman. She was kind of running a for age group and started calling, you know? You know, I started volunteering there and,  you know, tribe because of mentor, kind of like tutor, you know, spending time with, like, certain certain of the kids. And, you know, it was realized, you know, I don't know, we don't like we don't have like a big brother or I've asked about it, but. Just look at like, you know, I see in Vermont now, they, they have like the Vermont Family Institute where they're, they're bringing these the  nonprofits where they have these kind of counselors that kind of pick kids up after school, and they're working with them after school. They also have like some of these kind of, mentors, kind of adolescent groups.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And it just seems like that there's a big difference between our states in terms of resources and funding, but just try and see what we can do beyond that,

[9098-131] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Chris: pretty successful working with, the various schools, with the high school, with the middle school to bring some of these kiddos back in here because we've had the the right conditions in which to do that, one being the Alt program at the high school.
TEXT> So we've been successful to bring some kids back from into that program. So I think we're starting to see in the drop in the numbers here in terms of the is because of some of these other things that we're being able to offer students here. That being said, we have some significant concerns going forward here. We've talked we're talking a lot about behavior. We're talking about, our real concern right now seems to be at the young elementary level. And,  we have a  special ed leadership group that meets  a few times a year.  The last time we met,  we had talked about all of our identified kids in the school district. So we, we, we have about 2000 kids total in Claremont. Just rough numbers. We have about 25% that are identified special education students. And so we kept drilling into that. So that's 400 about 400 kids, give or take, of those 400 kids. We conservatively estimated that about 150, 200 of those kids were experiencing some sort of trauma, along with an educational disability and to varying degrees on that trauma being treated.
NEXT> Unidentified: And we.

[9098-134] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Chris: run into several situations this year where we've got between 5 and 7 kids right now. Who would we consider to be extremely at risk students who would benefit from and out of district placement? Because we don't have the capacity to deal with what?
TEXT> And we're not talking about education because what we're talking about here is containment versus education. And so for a lot of these students, we're we're containing them, but we're not we're not educating them. And and when you get into that arena and, these kiddos have some much more significant needs than we're able to do and our schools have done, they have gone  above and beyond and dealing with  these, these behaviors and these. Families and, you know, these kids and and we are very, very it is a,  sending a student out of district placement is not something that happens in isolation. Everybody is involved, the cabinet, everybody is aware IEP teams, families, we,  we we take this very, very seriously about kids going out and we try to bring them back. But I don't want to get lost in the numbers here because our numbers are down to 2.1. But I'm,  I'm I'm very fearful for what's coming. Very, very fearful. Unless we seriously look at what our landscape is.  We have some significant mental health needs here that need to be addressed for these kids who are extremely high risk. The other thing I want to mention, too, is part of this is that we spend a lot of time looking at,
NEXT> Chris: Are our kids. We have a lot of kids who move in and they move out, move ins, move out, and and a lot of questions. We sit around the

[9098-135] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Chris: landscape is. We have some significant mental health needs here that need to be addressed for these kids who are extremely high risk. The other thing I want to mention, too, is part of this is that we spend a lot of time looking at,
TEXT> Are our kids. We have a lot of kids who move in and they move out, move ins, move out, and and a lot of questions. We sit around the table and discuss a lot of time is ultimately because these kids will go from Manchester to,  you know, Pelham to,  you know, Henniker, and then they'll end up in Claremont. And a lot of times it's who ultimately is the district of liability, who's the sending school, who has the responsibility for,  being the fiscal,  who what school district is, is the one that has the fiscal responsibility for for paying for these kiddos. And, and so we have spent a lot of focus this year on when we do get these movements, we look at them very, very critically in terms of where they have come from, where their parents have been. And if we have any sort of concern about where they're coming from, we will engage with our  attorney from Drummond and Woodson and I and I, and that it takes a lot of time and research to sort of go into these,  specific cases. And it is important to note here that Claremont did have just have a recent we had a big win and and it, it sort of revolved around a district of liability case in which one district was saying, no, it's you, Claremont, you're the district of liability.
NEXT> Chris: And we were pushing back saying, no, it's you. You're the district of liability. So you have there are a lot of RSA, there are a lot of state laws

[9098-136] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Chris: important to note here that Claremont did have just have a recent we had a big win and and it, it sort of revolved around a district of liability case in which one district was saying, no, it's you, Claremont, you're the district of liability.
TEXT> And we were pushing back saying, no, it's you. You're the district of liability. So you have there are a lot of RSA, there are a lot of state laws that are in, in play here that have never been challenged in court. So one district's interpretation of who the district of liability is can be completely different from what another district says, because there's so much gray area in the law around who who is the district of liability. So we have been challenging some of these things. And, we just had a pretty significant win from what I understand is going to be  something that is talked about a lot in law conferences now, and it had to do with a the kid who was already in and out of district placement at a tune of one $120,000 a year. So it's that kind of critical looking at  who are the kids who are moving and moving out being very critical, but who are the kids that we have here now and prevention and preventing them from going out. So if we're going to seriously look at restructuring to prevent some of these kiddos from going out,  we're going to need some significant mental health support in the school districts, boots on the ground to  sort of set that up and how we get there, I'm not sure.
NEXT> Chris: But that's that's part of why we're having this, this discussion. And the other thing is we have recently met with Newport. Newport is also experiencing the same thing at

[9098-140] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you. Chris.  If I may,  I would like to spend a few minutes in nonpublic  with our building principals. It would be inappropriate for a building principal to discuss a matter about their school. Because of the size of the community, we're not going to be talking about children's names with you. We want to bring you into the world of our teachers and administrators. So you have this sensitivity about the seriousness of this,  and also the direction that we anticipate heading in the near future through the budget process,  through future discussions. So with your approval,  if we could go into nonpublic.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[9098-163] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: We have.
TEXT> We have that window. The younger they can learn some coping strategies, the better. And thing is, a lot of these kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's.

[9098-231] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Josh Malloy: spread over that six year period. And that just, you know, where are we now with technology? So a lot of that money went into laptops, desktops, projectors, interactive whiteboards, networking, predominantly wireless Chromebooks, servers, security phones, fiber and Wan build outs for the schools.
TEXT> So broadband,  you can tell a lot of work has been put in and that's where a lot of it went to. So if we look right now, when you look at that yearly cost that we're looking at, that's to sustain a program where we have 900 laptops, 900, well, 900 laptops, desktops and servers all together, and 625 Chromebooks. Which means essentially we have 1 to 1 for our teachers. So each teacher has a laptop, we have 1 to 1 for admin. So each of our admin have a laptop or desktop. Technically, I think there might be a couple teachers and still have desktops.  It doesn't mean that we're 1 to 1 with our students. So we have one device for many students, one device for many staff. So we have a lot of carts in our in our buildings. So that's if you go around our buildings you'll see a lot of carts. We've invested a lot in short throw projectors and interactive whiteboards. So you'll see that in a lot of classrooms, if you go and you to the classrooms, you'll see that equipment there. We've invested a lot in network wireless access points. And if you look this is kind of highlighting. So we've got access points deployed but they aren't deployed in each classroom.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Jessica, can I go back to you don't have to go back, but just curiosity. Why are you doing what? Not you. Because I know it was before you started.

[9098-237] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Josh Malloy: and so far, no knows yet. So, that may change, but I think that's interesting. I kind of brought up last time how manufacturing, retail, and even healthcare is looking at integrating technology into what they do and the reasons why are these same reasons.
TEXT> They're looking to decrease costs. We're looking to increase proficiency, increase quality, decrease routine tasks, increase safety and increase competitiveness. I think those same things could apply to education. And I know other school districts are using technology in that way to do the same things. Finally, I think with this, I just I want to say, I don't know that that's exactly the right answer. So how can we justify continuing to spend money on technology? I think the better answer is what do we need to to really do personalized student learning? What is it that we need to to achieve the outcomes that we're looking for? If it's if it's buying again, if it's just buying technology, like I have a bunch of tools, I don't buy those tools to just leave them on a shelf. I buy them with purpose. So I buy a drill because I want to create holes.  If we're buying technology, purposely driven, if we have a strategic plan and we're supporting that strategic plan, you use the money effectively.  Are we getting a good return on the investment? I thought you'd never ask. I wrote an article about this last year.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: Feel free to read it. I'll go into all kinds of detail. But one of the conversations I had in there is return on investment comes from the business world

[9098-238] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Josh Malloy: If we're buying technology, purposely driven, if we have a strategic plan and we're supporting that strategic plan, you use the money effectively. Are we getting a good return on the investment? I thought you'd never ask. I wrote an article about this last year.
TEXT> Feel free to read it. I'll go into all kinds of detail.  But one of the conversations I had in there is return on investment comes from the business world  ROI. And there are situations where that works for us. I love those situations because I go to Mike and I say, hey, in a year this is going to pay for itself and we don't have to worry about that bill anymore. It's a real easy sell. I love when I can use ROI and it's very easy to calculate.  I love the formula. Piece of cake voice. Because we're a service, we provide a service. We we help our students learn. V is is another measure and value of investment is really you're looking at  your strategic plan. You're trying to figure out what it is that you want to support. And you're you're assessing things that you've purchased and the things that you're deploying to the kids to determine the value. So it's really about establishing measures. It's about establishing key performance indicators and saying, is this tool that we are paying for because again, this is a service. So chances are you're continuing to pay for it or or not.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: So you might look at the value that it's offering based on how much you're paying for it. And you may say, well this is doing okay, but we've got

[9098-239] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Josh Malloy: kids to determine the value. So it's really about establishing measures. It's about establishing key performance indicators and saying, is this tool that we are paying for because again, this is a service. So chances are you're continuing to pay for it or or not.
TEXT> So you might look at the value that it's offering based on how much you're paying for it. And you may say, well this is doing okay, but we've got another program over here that is doing phenomenally and is really making a difference in our students lives. Let's support that. So it's a it's a little bit more difficult because it involves a lot more people. And the formula is not as simple. It's a little bit more subjective.  And you need a lot more people involved to come up with that calculation.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just. Yeah.

[9098-246] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patrick Adrian: About, no, it's fine. I just didn't know if. I just want to make sure, like if you, you probably touch on it, but I just wanted to throw that in.
TEXT> So I'm kind of leading into it with where do we need to be? So, if you guys remember this one, I'm really focusing on that collaboration piece and that future ready piece. So I don't want to call this a tech plan because it's more it's more really in support of our strategic planning. It's really in support of what we're doing in education. And it's really figuring out how technology helps us to do the work that we're doing, whether it's in the business office or whether it's helping our kids to learn. It's how does technology support what we're doing?  And this is a tool that's been out there for a while. It's a whole process in how to come up with that, to collaborate together and to really establish what are we doing, making sure we're making smart decisions, making sure we're we're putting the wires in when we're doing our renovation. I know it's a touchy subject, but just, the outcomes for technology and staff. So I wanted to bring Charlie around to talk about this. If there are any more specific questions.  What I've seen personally is the onboarding here, and I've been really impressed with that. So a lot of school districts just kind of hire people and they throw them out there and say, hey, good luck.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: Maybe they get a mentor and they're working with the mentor, but we actually have a really good a really good onboarding program here, and they're working to get better.

[9098-254] Charlie Gessner | Technology integrationist, SAU 6 (ASR 'Charlie Gessner', spelling unve | 2017-05-17
PREV> Charlie Gessner: six, again with the digital citizenship component as well. So you have at grade six, it's pretty much Google Docs. Grade seven is pretty much Google presentations. Grade eight is pretty much Google Spreadsheets or we're also Paul is now also getting into more coding.
TEXT> So what we're trying to do is build upon what we did with the our code the first couple of years, do more with Code.org. And now what's happening is students are also coming in as part of that 22 day curriculum at CMS. And they are programing using Spiro Sphero, Programable ball units.  And the kids absolutely love that they come to the high school next year. The entire curriculum is being revamped. When students used to come to the high school for their,  technology credit, there was one entry path and that was predominantly through ICT. Next year that's changing. So next year students will have the option when they're coming in from Claremont Middle School to take either Intro to Career Readiness, which basically is more geared towards the student that's looking to do office types of skills with products like either Google Drive or Microsoft Office, resume building all those types of skills we are also going to have as a pathway in  Intro to Digital Arts. So this is more centered around creating  letters, newsletters,  advertisements,  anything that's more graphically involved with products like Adobe. So we're using predominantly Adobe Photoshop there. And we've also used Adobe Dreamweaver in the past. We're kind of pulling back from that. Adobe Fireworks is another one. And we've also used in design for desktop publishing. So we have that and we're hoping to build upon that.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: We're trying to just get that off the ground and get that going. One of the limitations that we obviously have, right, are our resources. Right now at the high

[9098-257] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patrick Adrian: glad you did. Are we kind of do we have anything right now where we were we kind of or our. Use kind of, I guess, kind of enhancing collaborative learning through the technology, or is that something we're kind of working on to develop?
TEXT> Fortunately, G suite has been very, very helpful in doing that. So  we're already doing it. I think we need to do more of it.  I just heard a story today about kids that were doing blogs on their own, so video kind of blogging, but with videos instead. And you know how they handled that over at the middle school when they found out that was happening, I thought was really good. You know, that there's certain rules that we have to follow, certain legalities that we have to do, but they were very supportive of it. And how can we how can we integrate this? How can we do this and make this a positive thing for the kids?  Anytime, anytime. We're using technology to to help the kids to create, to help the kids to learn, to help the kids to,  you know, to to get involved, I think is a positive thing. And of course, we've got to be safe. We've got to make sure the kids are safe and we've got to make sure things are going on. So  we're already having conversations about safety and expanding on our digital citizenship and making sure that kids are doing this stuff safely. But yeah, I mean, collaboration is huge. So, you know, working together and getting things done, whether you're using technology to do it or your face to face or whatever it is you're doing is huge.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: So, yeah, we're already doing a lot with Google Classroom. I know there's a lot of.

[9098-267] Charlie Gessner | Technology integrationist, SAU 6 (ASR 'Charlie Gessner', spelling unve | 2017-05-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's.
TEXT> Two part question. I'm going to give you two answers. So on the student side, we're definitely seeing their skills have increased to the point where when Paul Petrescu is now getting students from grade five at any of the elementary schools, there are certain parts of his curriculum that he basically no longer has to teach, because those kids are now coming up with the skills. So the good news is that we're taking part of Paul's curriculum this summer, and we're actually pushing it down to grade five, and we're kind of revamping his curriculum at grade six, because we are adding Gmail to the middle school in the fall. So we'll be teaching that from a digital citizenship ship perspective, as well as just from an instructional standpoint. And it also opens up the doors for other products that we might be able to use that are free online, because with a lot of things is you probably know you have to have some type of, email confirmation. So if the students have that email address, we can use that for confirmation to open ourselves up for other free resources.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: So on the student side, definitely on the staff side, yes, we're seeing some things, but I'm going to I'm going to come back to one thing and that's the

[9098-268] Charlie Gessner | Technology integrationist, SAU 6 (ASR 'Charlie Gessner', spelling unve | 2017-05-17
PREV> Charlie Gessner: that are free online, because with a lot of things is you probably know you have to have some type of, email confirmation. So if the students have that email address, we can use that for confirmation to open ourselves up for other free resources.
TEXT> So on the student side, definitely on the staff side, yes, we're seeing some things, but I'm going to I'm going to come back to one thing and that's the staff turnover. It's like taking one step forward, two steps back sometimes. So I'll give you a great example. When I came up here three years ago, like in November of that, my first year on this job, one of the things that we wanted was we wanted teachers to have a website, and we wanted that website to be used as a communication tool not only for students, but for parents. And while a lot of staff do have that, when you lose the amount of staff that we have lost, it's like you've got to get everybody back on board again. So the onboarding process helps out a lot. We can offer workshops. I mean, we've done workshops basically. I mean, I don't know what else we can really offer them. We do them during school vacations. We already have released our summer schedule. We're doing days in early July. We're doing a full week in late July. I've already gone on record to staff and said, call me up. Email me if you want to come in during the summer, just do one on one stuff. Will do one on one after school. We do.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just want to be a devil's advocate too as well though, because I, I think about time in general. So when you talk about teachers being able to implement

[9098-277] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks guys.
TEXT> So I mentioned before a little bit. So, Charlie Mikami have been working really hard to go through every single classroom, talk to all of our educators and leading into that future ready program. So in future ready, they're really into collecting data, collecting information, and really getting a really good perspective on how technology is being used to help to help students learn. What's the expectation? I mean, basically it's use every resource you have available to personalized learning and make sure every kid is growing. I think that's just target, I think, move sometimes when we're talking about specific programs or specific platforms. But that's always it's it's basically use whatever we can. If there's a free program out there and it's sound and it works with our curriculum and it makes sense. We'll use it. Google's been such a, you know, a useful tool there. So thankful for that. Our students and teachers using technology. I think you kind of got that that. Yes. So I was so glad that Charlie could make it tonight to talk about this stuff. And I didn't put everything up here. This was just stuff that I could grab real quick at some of the things that were mentioned.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: But really that I ready, is a program where we're, we're getting that measure of how the kids are doing. So one thing that I keep hearing, even in my

[9098-278] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Josh Malloy: got that that. Yes. So I was so glad that Charlie could make it tonight to talk about this stuff. And I didn't put everything up here. This was just stuff that I could grab real quick at some of the things that were mentioned.
TEXT> But really that I ready, is a program where we're, we're getting that measure of how the kids are doing. So one thing that I keep hearing, even in my short time here, is that people need more and they want to do more with the kids, with technology. And, you know, that's that's kind of where I'll leave that off. So that's it. Are there any other questions?
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Could we get some of the copy of the slides for later use some really good information on here. Yeah.

[9098-316] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patrick Adrian: But I know, but why so why 26? Like why do we have to have more credits in order to to the.
TEXT> Well, part of it is we know what the most competitive colleges are looking for. So that breakdown of credits, three years of a world language, four years of English, four years of science, three and a half social studies, etc. we know that matches up with what your more competitive colleges are looking for. I don't want to undersell the kids at Stevens. That student who comes in and knows or doesn't know until their senior year, maybe that they're able and want to go to an Ivy League school, to a Stanford, to a Dartmouth. I don't want them to go into their senior year and realize that they didn't take enough, do enough, have offered enough to have a transcript that's going to be competitive with a student anywhere else in the United States for those top colleges, if they follow that 27 credit diploma of distinction, they will. They'll come out of Stevens ready to compete with anybody. So that's and that 27 credit diploma is not for everybody, you know. But but students at least know that up front. They know what the the guide is. They know what the prize is. They know what has to happen in there. And then I think we do do a good job of saying, but  I don't emphasize GPA, you know, take band, take chorus, take theater, take art, don't take courses.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Don't sign up for stuff because it's weighted. Because you're looking for a magical number, because colleges less and less are really looking at that. They're less and less looking

[9098-320] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: That's enabling Steve to get into RTI.
TEXT> So just along those lines, because we we say it's approved, but it's hard to find proof. It just is. And I know a previous school board member who also happens to be my wife,  had mentioned at some point, and I think now is the perfect time to really start trying to figure out how to do it is reaching out the kids that are going through this round and then have already gone through it, reaching out to alumni that have gone on, were they ready? Were they really prepared? I mean, I can speak to to Ashley, who graduates in two days, and her experience here was great, but there were some things that could have been done a little bit better that I know we're working on, but it would be great if we could get a pool of kids who have gone on to college.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: We do that. We did it for two years in a row now, under the guise of having them come back and talk to the underclassmen, but then we're picking

[9098-322] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: We do that. We did it for two years in a row now, under the guise of having them come back and talk to the underclassmen, but then we're picking their brains and they're they're being very honest.
TEXT> It would be great to see this. I know that's that's been and I think that's important information. Absolutely. You know, and to me along those lines for our next meeting, it'd be great to know, you know, the kids that are graduating in the next few days and you know, where the alumni, where kids have gone in less than four years, where they're graduating to start, because that, to me is a success. Stories. And whether the proof is in the in the pudding. So it would be nice to start having that data. And I'll probably bug you about that again.
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely.

[9098-324] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Absolutely.
TEXT> Absolutely. Just a few more things, that I wanted to point out to you. We have now appendices at the back, and we have kind of a,  a graveyard, of courses. So the courses that aren't running this year because of low signups or courses that have not run, let's say, for the last two years or so, but we don't want to get rid of them because we, we, we may be able to resurrect them if there's enough student interest that comes up. There is a shelf life obviously, before they have to be revisited by the Curriculum Council. But so you have an appendices that articulates that, and then we have another appendix. Be an example, extended learning opportunities, two pages that give you different examples of what an ELO can look like, which is as we now increase our ellos, we're at around 20. You talk about Lebanon. Lebanon has a full time ELO coordinator and they are doing about 300 ellos a year. Yellows extended learning opportunity. So if it's if a student wants to take Mandarin Chinese, we're not offering it. But they don't want to do either. But there's somebody who can teach them Mandarin Chinese in the community.  We'll set up an ELO for them.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: The elbows are as rigorous, if not more, as we've now implemented them in the school. What a student has to do, the competencies, all of that. It's pretty intense,

[9098-335] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: That. For.
TEXT> Me to And math 180 has been added. We've done read 180 and now we have math 180. As a as a follow up program for our math learners who need extra help. So we're really excited about that coming in. So we have sample pathways in English now so that you can take a look at a pathway in the English department. As Charlie was talking about earlier. We have that same thing in here for our ICT courses. So it's different chunks you can enter in at different places. It used to be you had to start with ICT or keyboarding, and then you had to just follow this one  domino. But now you can come in in a variety of places, wherever your interest lies, and then kind of move in different pathways through our technology courses that way. So that in a nutshell, is some of the bigger things. Yep. Sample pathways in digital technology and business. So and we've we've peppered the entire with artwork, which is nice to show off some of the wonderful things and give credit to the kids.  And what they do in their art classes and show off their talents that way. So any questions? Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank.

[9098-344] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> The good news is there are many conflicts about our students, graduation awards, etc.. The bad news is  it conflicts with school board meetings. So there were two dates in early June. And the dates? Important because we want to have a food service presentation.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: How about you in first?

[9098-499] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: National Honor Society fundraiser.
TEXT> Karen Collison is the National Honor Society advisor and was not able to be here this evening and asked if I could speak to this. In the past, they've done a fundraiser called shantytown and the the point of the fundraiser. And you may be able to speak to this a little historically better than I is to raise awareness about homelessness in our community. So they're asking to do it again. And, this time we  talked more specifically about,  making sure we recognize that we have homeless students in our community. And in our high school, and to to do this in a way that is respectful of all of our students.  And so we we've included some additional components. One would be they'll be meeting at the Claremont Soup Kitchen to help serve the evening meal.  We the money raised will be split between the National Honor Society and our one for all space. So the the any money raised in this fundraiser will go immediately back to  our students and families.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: What what did it do before? Did it just all go?

[9098-504] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: To,
TEXT> Support our own students first.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are they going to be raising money doing this?

[9098-506] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Are they going to be raising money doing this?
TEXT> My understanding is  that they,  solicit pledges and donations from different community groups and individuals to spend the night outside  or in some semblance of a shelter after  they'll be viewing. A documentary regarding  the plight of homeless youth. We just recently released, and I and I will be talking more about this in the future. We had a film made here in our community. It was released at the last, Friday's homeless liaison meeting. It's now posted in a couple places on. Online. But that's a it's an 18 minute film that chronicles homelessness of, of youth in  our state.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: It's where that's posted.

[9098-508] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: It's where that's posted.
TEXT> Yeah, I can I can post it and it will be something that I've actually liked to view here. And so they will be creating  a camp based, Setting to sleep in, I believe it's out here behind this building. And then, they'll be watching the film to increase their awareness about the topic, and then they will be serving at the soup kitchen. And so it's a Sunday evening into Monday evening.  And I've also agreed to do, you know, to, to be present for the film viewing, but then to kind of do some question and answer. With the students afterward before they settle down for the evening. So,  there will be staff on duty throughout the evening. Claremont Police Department will be surveilling the area behind the middle school throughout the night. And then hoping to get a donation of a porta potty to have that available. And then, they'll go to class the next day. So some of the students are seniors. This is the week before. Graduation, so it's coming up shortly. It's June 4th and fifth, I believe. And so that's all being taken into account.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: How many students are there?

[9098-523] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Help.
TEXT> More  of our students understand what all of our students might be experiencing.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Do we have a motion?

[9128-12] Mary Ann Lovett | Student representative to the school board (ASR 'Mary Ann love it', 'M | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: Oh.
TEXT> So for those who don't know, this will be my last meeting as a student representative next week. I know next week I graduate and I will be headed off to Roanoke in Virginia. So I have made a farewell address for the school board. There's extra copies on the table over there if you'd like to read along, or if you would like to email me, I can always send a copy virtually. Two years ago, I sat among others, waiting for their turn to speak during citizens comments. As I sat alone listening to the opening remarks, Doctor Berry walked in and found her seat next to mine. We exchanged hellos, quietly inquiring why the other one was there. Then suddenly she turned to me and asked, would you be the student representative? I have to go up there and tell him I have no one if you don't. Feeling the pressure of the moment, I accepted and I have not regretted it since. Thank you for giving me two years of representing the Saw six schools and speaking on behalf of many voices who are not often heard. But with this gratitude comes reflection.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: Looking back, there are times in which I must express disappointment. I hope the board takes my thoughts and turns them into action. If not action, merely a discussion. Improvement

[9128-14] Mary Ann Lovett | Student representative to the school board (ASR 'Mary Ann love it', 'M | 2017-05-31
PREV> Mary Ann Lovett: nor the goal, but themselves. I'm not saying one should never use past experiences as part of their point, but to be sure, the past experiences is of relevance to not only them, but the others. And that is fit for public discussion, not personal.
TEXT> We are a public board. During my time and youth in government, I learned one of the most valuable lessons of public official could know. With debate comes a need for structure. At the school board, the structure is sometimes lacking. As of now, a member may speak on a topic as long as they would like, unless another motions for close of discussion and is approved, meaning a discussion could go on forever without a limit on how long one can speak or how long a discussion can last. Words are often repeated and statements are continuously made. This results in a lack of attention from others, creating an unproductive discussion. If there was an allotted time for each discussion topic, the statements being made would be more impactful.  Also, in proper parliamentary procedure one one must ask the chair before he or she may speak. This allows for order and regulation. Often I have seen people speak freely, breaking the procedure without any reprimanding. This results in others speaking more than some cutting people off and an apparent lack of respect. I hope next year the board will follow this more strictly and ask themselves if what they are about to say has been said, or if they should even say it.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: Thankfully, doctor McGowan sends out an email prior to the schoolroom meeting saying the topics I will be discussed and action items needed to be met. This allows time for

[9128-16] Mary Ann Lovett | Student representative to the school board (ASR 'Mary Ann love it', 'M | 2017-05-31
PREV> Mary Ann Lovett: to ensure that students are getting most of their education that the taxpayers are funding. It's important to remember the board's responsibility, or else boundaries will be crossed and lines will be faded when having discussions and making decisions. I hope the conclusions follow that.
TEXT> This includes a joint discussions with the City Council. The items discussed must have common ground between both bodies and the ability to promote change, or else it is a waste of both groups of time. Each body is equally important, but put together their opportunities are limitless. The only obstacles stopping them are the topics of merit that cannot be acted upon or hold no relevance to either the school board or city council. At the end of it all, the true recipients of the school board actions are the students. It is easy to forget their places when they are not present at the meeting, which is why it's so important to listen to what the student representative has to say.  I also consider the inclusion of the future representative in nonpublic sessions more often. If the actions the school board makes are for the students, the soon should have a portion of say in the matter. Also, I would like to ask the permanent include the student representative in roll Call. Sometimes it's the smallest actions in life that mean the most, such as someone's presence in a school board meeting and what they have to say.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: Finally, I want to talk about appearance. Life happens and instances occur, but regular tardiness without a reason is not acceptable of any member. It is rude, disrespectful, and a

[9128-23] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: Superintendents report.
TEXT> I after Mary Ann Lovett's comments, I don't really have too much more to say other than to remind you that the next few weeks here in the Claremont School District,  there are so many opportunities in so many  different events dealing with the academics, dealing with the athletics, dealing with the arts.  Please look on the Claremont School District district calendar because every school has important events. Tomorrow night, for example, is the annual spring concert by Stevens High School. And this concert  is obviously our high school students, but it also represents our elementary schools and our middle school as well, who at one time were most of them were musicians at that level. So this is just one example. But,  and obviously June 7th was going to be our first school board meeting. That is senior night recognition night. And obviously June 8th is is their graduation. But though the Stevens High School is our flagship and receive a lot of attention.  I also  want to remind all of all of us,  especially the community and parents, to to review the calendar and understand and acknowledge the wonderful things and events that have occurring next two and a half weeks  at our elementary schools and middle school as well. Reviewing the calendar, participating in some of these events will,   clearly illustrate why we are very proud of our school district as measured by our students. So thank you.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Why we're there? Because I believe we all got invitations to graduation. Can you go over the process for graduation and what the school board role could be if we

[9128-26] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-05-31
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: that in the past. Brian wrapped it last year. I made a few comments last year. I haven't seen the the the agenda, if you will, for graduation, but I will ask Pat to to revisit that and we'll reach out to all of you.
TEXT> Yeah. It was more of the content of just being up there. I'm not looking for us to actually say much. The year I did, it was just up there being able to. Fortunately for me, it was my daughter's class. So I knew a ton of the kids, and it was just nice to be able to even give a couple of diplomas out just to be part of that. Or even if we're just up on the stage when the kids walk by. That, to me, is it's what we're all about. When all is said and done, it's a good night and we can have a full board to be able to just represent that to the kids. I think it's awesome. I'm not looking for us to actually have a place on the agenda, just more of a seat on the stage.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: There will definitely be seats on the stage, but, I think it does give a very positive comment to the community because school board members, as Marion Lovett just said,

[9128-31] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: her know tonight. I think we'll be okay. We'll make chairs when we get there if we need to. Okay. Any questions for the superintendent? Superintendents report. Citizens comments. Anybody from the public? Okay. Was that. Is that your cue? The thunder? Go ahead. Michelle.
TEXT> Go to the. Good evening. I speak not as a board member, but as a citizen. Tonight. I came onto the board a year and a half ago, voted in, and I was very proud of the opportunity. I'd like to express, though,  a moment to just say I'm sorry that my emotions got the best of me. Last week we talked about a topic that is extremely close to my home. It's affecting my home greatly and unfortunately it at a rate that that I'm struggling still to figure out. But to the community, it takes a village to raise a child.  And what I wanted to say was, is that it's so important whether I share my personal story of my child struggling and my grandson struggling, I feel that it's necessary for the public to hear that we are we are a community working together, and that even a board member can be affected greatly by the pains of incarceration and drug addiction  and some of the turmoils that we're we're facing  and,  and the problems with school and how we're going to handle it.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And now that it's opened the can of worms, as we would want to say, I'm proud of the fact that I'm able to share my story. And if anyone

[9128-46] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Scott: our program and the schedule ease the financial piece of the 20 2020 piece. I'll talk about that at the end and have some comparisons there to look at for you. And then if you guys have questions or hear the answer, all your questions.
TEXT> Thank you very much. Say you six, for inviting us to bid on your food service contract and for inviting us tonight for this presentation. Hopefully I won't be drowned out by the thunder and the rain. As Scott said, my name is Nina Hansen. I have worked with the Abbey Group for over 13 years.  I'm a school nutrition specialist. I work in the field training and overseeing accounts, and as part of my role is mentoring new accounts. And yours might be one of them. I can tell from the comments, the previous comments that this is a very dedicated, board and we're thrilled to be able to present to you tonight. So just a few program highlights that go into a lot more detail in the binders that you have. And, of course, the program wouldn't exist without the children in your school district and the students.  So with with that said, the our focus in this little handout is really things that of  that are common questions and that affect the board and the business office specifically, when you contract with an outside vendor.  But we don't feel like outsiders.
NEXT> Nina Hansen: We are we are part of your community, and we want to be thought of as that, that we are an extension of the school community, and we are a

[9128-47] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Nina Hansen: students. So with with that said, the our focus in this little handout is really things that of that are common questions and that affect the board and the business office specifically, when you contract with an outside vendor. But we don't feel like outsiders.
TEXT> We are we are part of your community, and we want to be thought of as that, that we are an extension of the school community, and we are a partner with you in providing the students with the best possible nutrition,  and variety in their meals, working with them together to build a strong program, and working with the different,  different staff and different areas of the school community to make it a wonderful experience for the kids. So typically when we  are rewarded, a  are awarded a food service contract, the employees become our employees of the Abbey Group, and we do everything in our power to maintain that staff with guidance from the board. If there are some staff members that, maybe are not going to make that transition, that's something that is discussed privately. But we do interview all the employees and make every effort to hire those that want to come on board with us. We  have a great training program, so it takes several days leading up to the transition where we explain and train and, give guidance on the way our program functions to the existing employees. And they're really usually very enthusiastic.  Scott is going to go into the financial details, but I think we try and make the transition as easy as possible for them, not any major changes.
NEXT> Nina Hansen: And that again creates a lot less stress in the transition. So we're happy about that. You can see again in the proposal, we're very dedicated to providing a lot

[9128-48] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Nina Hansen: guidance on the way our program functions to the existing employees. And they're really usually very enthusiastic. Scott is going to go into the financial details, but I think we try and make the transition as easy as possible for them, not any major changes.
TEXT> And that again creates a lot less stress in the transition. So we're happy about that. You can see again in the proposal, we're very dedicated to providing a lot of educational opportunities for our staff. We have really welcomed the professionalism that has become part of school nutrition programs. The USDA has mandated it, but we  have long before made it our  goal to make sure  if half our staff don't know what a fiddlehead green is, and we're trying to serve it to the students that, you know, we're all on the same page. So we're educating as we go with our staff to, I don't think that you are presently working with a point of sale system, but we have an online point of sale system that I think parents will really like and students will like. It works with a Pin number, just like at an ATM machine. But parents can make online deposits onto their student accounts. They can,  also look at student history to see who's buying what, and they can put spending limits on the account. That's a really great feature. I think the business office loves the the way the financial reports are generated and at a touch of the button. So again, lots more detail in your proposal for that.  Scott mentioned the Abbey Group.
NEXT> Nina Hansen: We have a wide breadth of experience. God has been with the company for over 30 years, Jace over ten years. And, again, that's, we wear that as a badge

[9128-49] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Nina Hansen: limits on the account. That's a really great feature. I think the business office loves the the way the financial reports are generated and at a touch of the button. So again, lots more detail in your proposal for that. Scott mentioned the Abbey Group.
TEXT> We have a wide breadth of experience. God has been with the company for over 30 years, Jace over ten years.  And, again, that's, we wear that as a badge of honor that our employees, we have very, very long term and dedicated employees. And we are hoping saw six employees join our team. We're constantly trying to innovate and promote healthy meals and delicious meals to the students. We do lots of we do that in lots of different ways. Monthly promotions. We have fun posters, we try and promote local products through our harvest of the month program. Our menus are often, you know, ever changing and can reflect themes that are going on at the school at the at that time or if,  international program wants to focus on Italian cuisine. One week we all work together to make that happen. So we look at the kitchen. And as the cafeteria is probably one of the biggest learning laboratories that you have in the school, and we welcome students to be part of that in every facet that they can be. I'm going to miss having Mary on the Food Advisory Committee, but every month we like to get together with the student committee and discuss the goals of the program, what's not working well, what is working well. And as you know, students don't pull any punches. So we just work together to solve problems.
NEXT> Nina Hansen: And again, back to the menus. We pride ourselves. And if you have a chance to look at our menu in cooking as much as we can from scratch, we're

[9128-50] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Nina Hansen: Committee, but every month we like to get together with the student committee and discuss the goals of the program, what's not working well, what is working well. And as you know, students don't pull any punches. So we just work together to solve problems.
TEXT> And again, back to the menus. We pride ourselves. And if you have a chance to look at our menu in cooking as much as we can from scratch, we're not opening boxes.  We are creating, homemade meals that taste great. Whether it's homemade chicken tenders that are still popular with students. Could be homemade mac and cheese, but with a buffalo chicken, you know, twist. So. But again, the most nutritious following all the USDA guidelines but very appealing to the kids. So thank you. Sure.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: I know that we start basically with USDA requirements but but then do you develop new meals, try them at certain locations and then roll them out to every district

[9128-52] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michael O'Neill: do it based on what you know? Obviously, it takes a little while to get a history of a district together to see what they like and what they don't like, right? How long does it take to transition the menu to for that normally?
TEXT> Well, you know, we can transition as early as somebody gives us, especially with working with existing employees. They know what are the most popular meals. And so things that we wouldn't want to change on the menu when we develop new recipes, yes, we try them at different sites or we hear that, you know, such and such a school is trying this and it's, you know, been a huge hit. You know, we also we evaluate every month which menus are not working well.  And of course there is always one at the bottom. But the, you know, the kids vote with their feet on certain items, you know, and also sometimes, you know, years ago something was popular and it's fallen out of favor.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: And yeah. How often do you meet with student advisory committees?

[9128-54] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michael O'Neill: And yeah. How often do you meet with student advisory committees?
TEXT> It's usually monthly. So as long as the advisory committee is there, if if we have to start, one might take a couple of,  you know, a couple of months to actually get the kids together, get the representatives together. It's nice to to have an administrator on that board, a parent, usually a health care provider, you know, within the district is really makes a great wellness committee.
NEXT> Scott: Thank you. Okay. Sure. Similar to that.

[9128-73] Jason Hughes | Food service director, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated; spelling  | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: Oh yeah.
TEXT> Oh I'm pretty loud though.  So here let me let me go. Oh okay. So I'll talk into the people at home as well. So I'm Jason Hughes I'm the food service director for southern New Hampshire. Currently I'm the food service director for Unity Elementary School. What we do in a lot of our sites is we encourage our staff to develop a training program for kids. It's not a Junior Iron Chef program. They call it a different program at each site. And we encourage kids probably fourth grade and up to join. It's a culinary adventure. They come in after school, we support the school, we provide chef jackets and fun things for the kids to do, learning tools and the product for them to use, and they do about a six week course. They rotate during food safety,  making a meal, nutritional guidelines, washing hands just from the general bottom all the way up and then they rotate at the end. We try to do a dinner for somebody, maybe someone special in the community, or maybe the school board. And a lot of the kids go sign up again for the next semester.
NEXT> Jason Hughes: So I actually have three schools right now that currently run a teaching program by the chef in elementary schools, so we'd love to do that in the high school.

[9128-74] Jason Hughes | Food service director, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated; spelling  | 2017-05-31
PREV> Jason Hughes: bottom all the way up and then they rotate at the end. We try to do a dinner for somebody, maybe someone special in the community, or maybe the school board. And a lot of the kids go sign up again for the next semester.
TEXT> So I actually have three schools right now that currently run a teaching program by the chef in elementary schools, so we'd love to do that in the high school. I know that New Hampshire's working on Junior Iron Chef right now, so we're really we always sponsored junior Iron Chef teams, and we bring a lot of that local and working with the kids and getting them involved. So any time that there's an opportunity to bring kids into the kitchen, we're really open to that.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Thank you. Any other questions at this point. Go ahead.

[9128-77] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member (asks about students without lunch money [ | 2017-05-31
PREV> Scott: There's a.
TEXT> Guilty of sometimes forgetting to said buddy. Oh  how do you how do you deal with the kids that may show up for lunch and not have money with them. Or may actually have a bill, right.
NEXT> Scott: Work together with the district office and what kind of a charge policy they would like us to run? Each on our website, we have a different charge policy for

[9128-78] Scott | Vice President of Operations, The Abbey Group, food service bidder (fi | 2017-05-31
PREV> Unidentified: Guilty of sometimes forgetting to said buddy. Oh how do you how do you deal with the kids that may show up for lunch and not have money with them. Or may actually have a bill, right.
TEXT> Work together with the district office and what kind of a charge policy they would like us to run? Each on our website, we have a different charge policy for each school. You know, some  some schools are one strict two meal policy, and some schools don't want us talking to kids at all. And they deal with the collection piece on the end, and we just keep feeding the kids. But in no case that we're going to deny kids food without first working with the administration and also the parents knowing it's not the kids fault that they don't have money in their account.  Our system, our point of sale system has an email feature that we can push bills out automatically. So we've been pushing bills out twice a week, Fridays and Monday afternoons so the parents can be notified they're in our K12 payment system, automatically generates a text message or an email when their accounts go to a low status. So there really isn't any real reason that they should be out of money. But occasionally there are cases where they forget to send in money,  and our online payment system interacts, reporting sale instantaneously. As soon as they put money on, it goes right on their account. It's live.
NEXT> Nina Hansen: Some parents ask us to call them, you know, when the account gets to a certain balance. So I'm the same with you. If I have four kids, it doesn't

[9128-110] Scott | Vice President of Operations, The Abbey Group, food service bidder (fi | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So I guess I just wanted to understand, so for free or reduced meals. For a free meal at the child, you see, is that would they be able to access, like the fruit and salad bar without it?
TEXT> All choices are available to all students in every school, and we try to promote that every chance we can get, because there is always those questions. But no matter what the status of the students are free, reduced or paid. It's very confidential. With our computer system, everybody is treated equally and everybody has every choice available to them. In every school we really promote is is part of our package. We're promoting more reimbursable meals, and reimbursable meals are available to all students.  So that's that's a benefit to to everybody. We have a lot of great choices and we believe we're going to serve more students. If you look at our  the hourly employees, we've budgeted 226 little over 226,000  in our competition, budgeted just under 179,000. So you'll see that we we've kept the personal personal days are at right now is seven  and and we also have a training day in there that represents around $5,000 more in our budget for that. And again, we've added that extra position at the high school and kept everybody's wages where they were at. So that's something that's negotiable. It's your program. But we just fell through. The transition is making it as smooth as possible. We basically provided all the employees what they're currently, being paid.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I did another staffing question from Brian actually, and it looks like both proposals are equal. So I don't know if this was an air of queue issue or not,

[9128-116] Scott | Vice President of Operations, The Abbey Group, food service bidder (fi | 2017-05-31
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Okay.
TEXT> So in our proposal we've had the point of sale system because everybody hears, you know, using pen and paper. We're going to put computer systems, brand new computer systems in every school with a computer. Nice. The best computer car printer, touch monitor, surge protector, caster everything. And the equipment that's going at the end of the contract will be owned by the district, so that costs will go down in the next contract cycle. It also comes with a K12 payment system where parents can pay online. We also have some optional features that we didn't include. That would be a great benefit to the district as Power School Connector, where we'll actually connect up to your student database and as a student is added to the to the database. They move in or move to a different school. Our point of sales are automatically updated, and that's a really good feature. There's no delay. There's also a free and reduced module where we can process free and reduced applications, because our plan is to you guys will have your own database and in your central office, if you wanted your own computer for whoever's going to do free and reduced, we can you can be integrated right into our point of sale system.
NEXT> Scott: So we had the free and reduced module. The application.com or parents from home can apply for free and reduced. They won't have to send an application anymore. So this

[9128-158] Jason Hughes | Food service director, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated; spelling  | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: But it shows. I mean, it's actually showing like, hey, you could go in and say, oh, my grandson's eating.
TEXT> Yeah. So I had a, I had a parent contact me today and ask. They had gone into their child's account and seen that every day that they were purchasing pizza. That's what it says in the statement. And the next line says switch. And so she said, could you tell me what this switch charge is? And I said, well, the switch charge is the can of juice that your child is buying every day. She said, thank you so much for the clarification. I wondered where the money was going. So what it does is it will break down the a la carte. So and like we said, they can put a spending limit. So if you're selling all the card items in an elementary school or a middle school where the kids don't really have that consciousness yet of where the money is going or coming from, you can put a spending limit on it. You can go in and check. Is my child buying ice cream every day? I'd only like my child to buy ice cream on Fridays. So we work with the admin teams first to see what the building supervisors want to have served in their buildings, when they want to have it served, and then secondary. We work with the parents to make sure that the children are spending the money the way the parents want them to.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Sure that on the free lunch. How do you.

[9128-179] Matt Pearce | Executive chef, Fresh Picks Cafe (introduced by Farrow; ASR 'Matt Pear | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Cantillon: have sugar cookies with sprinkles. This is kind of a new thing. And then this is a brand new thing. These were made with some butter commodity some butter and cocoa and a fantastic. So I'm just going to let you guys pass these around.
TEXT> So what I have is a promotion, which is a pretty normal meal that is pretty much a grab and go concept for, for the kids that can come in and just grab it. A few different varieties that we're fooling around with. Some on the breakfast end, which is a honey yogurt. Grape strawberries, with some vegetarian options to I have one Asian theme with some tofu and some roasted broccoli. This one here is tomato and fresh basil.  So,
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: You just put those in an open top or something so they can just grab them on the way by or they're not.

[9128-220] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Scott: For.
TEXT> Your participation growth in the first year of the program, 5 or 6 years ago, before, everything was whole grain and we had to serve beans and all of that kind of stuff. We would go into programs and literally see participation double just by some of the programs we do, some of the stuff we do, what we really found over the course of the past few years, we can do a great job with and hummus and some of this stuff that you see in front of you. It takes some time to train the kids. Okay. So we really feel our projected growth 10% at lunch, 13% at breakfast is in line with what's reasonable for growth under the current regulations, with the programs we have in the first year and what we used to see, like I said, five, six, ten years ago when I first started this, we would go in, we'd see double participation and have a kind of level off. Now we kind of see more of a steady growth in participation year over year. As we get kids used to these newer choices have the chance to do the tri bites, really get the kids trying some different things that are in line with regulations. Okay. And then last bullet is a guaranteed financial return. Our financial proposal projects a $20,000 surplus of revenues over expenses for this program for the next school year.
NEXT> Chris Farrow: And that is a guaranteed return, which means that if our revenues are $20,000 higher than the expenses we put out, that is money that belongs to the school district.

[9128-266] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: From Mike.
TEXT> Yes. Sorry. Not from the school district. From Mike. Thank you. And from there, we look for any specific, criteria that has been included in the RFP. You know, a great example, a different RFP is, you know, sometimes they'll be certain things that employees have that the school districts want to make sure it's maintained. Okay. We'll take all of that into consideration. And then we will include that in our proposal. So in the Claremont proposal, all of the existing staff, their rates are included in here with a cost of living increase for next year. At the same hours that they are at for now and that they work now. Okay. All employees in this district will have the opportunity to interview with us, and take those positions, and they really get priority, because they know the buildings. They know the kids, they know your community. So we really try and do our best to retain as many of those employees as possible. Really, the only time that doesn't happen is when a school district comes to us and says, please don't let this person back in my building. I've actually had that happen. I had one school district where the building principal at the high school said, I don't want some of these people back in my building. And I met the first two ladies and I was like.
NEXT> Matt Pearce: What.

[9128-286] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: Yes.
TEXT> From an educational standpoint. What do you envision for opportunities for students educationally or even employment?
NEXT> Chris Farrow: Even employment.

[9128-319] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: The.
TEXT> You know, and it's really finding that balance between that stuff that the kids just go for and the stuff that we want to teach them to eat. Yeah. You know, because things like French Toast Day, chicken nugget Day and the elementaries, not so much at the secondary levels. That's the kind of stuff that the kids really want. You know what I mean? And we have to give them a little bit of that too, to keep that participation up. Right? But it gives us the opportunity to get them to try kale chips with it or try this with it or try.
NEXT> Chris Irish: That one. Right, right.

[9128-340] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: Roasted tofu.
TEXT> Cilantro, roasted tofu, edamame to chicken, that kind of stuff. We'll have some districts where the kids go so nuts over it. We'll run it all the time. We'll have some districts where we get to work those kids into it, you know what I mean? So that, you know,  this is all there. It's all available. We'll try it all. Some will take right away, some will be a little longer. Some may never take Michelle.
NEXT> Unidentified: So. So these would.

[9128-343] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Be available for the grade school children also all grades. And then is there a fruit and salad bar also. Or is it a just a general menu that that day this is what you're having and that's it.
TEXT> Typically what we do with that. Again it kind of varies from location, location and the physical setup of the location.  We always offer a variety of additional fruits and vegetables that are not necessarily on the menu. You know, so even if it says, you know, the day's menu has applesauce on it, we still have fresh fruit out. A lot of times we'll have a fresh vegetable choice in addition to like, whatever vegetable choices on the menu and have some variety there, the kids can have that choice from. And really the way that we train our staff is that if kids ask for more vegetables, give them more vegetables. If kids ask for.
NEXT> Unidentified: I want a pile of corn this big.

[9128-345] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Unidentified: I want a pile of corn this big.
TEXT> If they eat it, great. If you give them a pile of corn this big and they only eat half of it, that's where the education comes in and say, okay, you know, you can have as much corn as you're going to eat. Not as much as you want to see on your tray as much as you can eat. You know, it's kind of a common sense thing because if you try to go unlimited fruits and vegetables with younger kids especially, you know, if it's a self-service type of thing that can get kind of out of control. Middle and high schools tend to be more self-service. And, you know, kind of the kids will take what they want. But, you know, that's really kind of how it works. Really the only place that I've ever seen where the whole concept of the fruit and vegetable bar blew my mind was, it's South Meadow in the school district, South Meadow Middle School. We have an eight foot table with all of these different varieties of fruits and vegetables on it.
NEXT> Chris Farrow: And the kids, when they were coming through the first few days that we were there, were just loading up and I'm like, whoa, whoa, what's going on? They also

[9128-346] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Farrow: ever seen where the whole concept of the fruit and vegetable bar blew my mind was, it's South Meadow in the school district, South Meadow Middle School. We have an eight foot table with all of these different varieties of fruits and vegetables on it.
TEXT> And the kids, when they were coming through the first few days that we were there, were just loading up and I'm like, whoa, whoa, what's going on? They also have a great composting program. They actually have a big compost bin right out back. So after the kids were doing it for a couple of days because they eat in their classrooms, the district manager and I went over and checked the compost bin after  lunch. There's hardly anything in there. Okay. But out more fruits and vegetables.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Second person. That was, I noticed that you have a recycle program, but what is your service? Is it do you have metal forks and spoons or.

[9128-350] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Dishes at the. I mean, basically what I'm hearing, I guess, is you're going to tailor to what we want, right?
TEXT> What you want and what we can partner with you on. So, you know, metal silverware is a great example. Because we do metal silverware in a lot of locations, we really need to partner with the school on having that metal silverware. You know, because our cafeteria staff really can't monitor what the kids are doing in the cafeteria. And what you can find is unless there's a system in place, unless the lunch monitors are helping, they wind up throwing out the metal civil war. And it's actually worse for the environment than what we were doing before. You know.
NEXT> Matt Pearce: Really.

[9128-352] Chris Cantillon | District manager, Fresh Picks Cafe (attribution by elimination; ASR 'C | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: Really.
TEXT> Good model was Lebanon. When they decided that they wanted to go to metal silverware. They started at the elementary schools and just did it there. And then those kids, when they moved up into middle school,  they were already used to now, okay, the silverware goes here over in this bucket. And then by the time they got to high school, so it was over several year plan to get to that point. But Lebanon is middle silverware through the whole district.
NEXT> Chris Farrow: You know, and then in terms of recycling that kind of stuff, again, it depends on the school district and what they want to do with it. We have some

[9128-361] Chris Cantillon | District manager, Fresh Picks Cafe (attribution by elimination; ASR 'C | 2017-05-31
PREV> Unidentified: A lot.
TEXT> Of it is at this time you do this, and then at this time you do this and some of it, maybe you're running two cash registers and you get through the majority of the students coming through, and then it's just a trickle coming through instead of keeping two people on a cash register. Okay, ten past this cashier stops doing that, goes over here and starts restocking this station. It's a it's a lot of.
NEXT> Unidentified: Easy, structured.

[9128-462] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-05-31
PREV> Unidentified: Of it.
TEXT> I think it's a Google app too. So if we we're 1 to 1 right. Well, for those of our kids that have like grown books or whatnot. It's a Google app. They would have access to that through. So that to me that would be an easy thing to put on all the Chromebooks that we have the kids use.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Yeah, I would just like the we don't we don't have any standing policies, do we, that state that kids can't have cell phones? It's in at lunch.

[9170-9] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Right after the school year starts, kindergarten in starting until the following Monday after the students arrived. Am I correct, Corey?
TEXT> Yes. The the kindergarten screening starts the Tuesday after Labor Day.  School starts for all students in grades one through 12 on the Tuesday after Labor Day. But kindergarten screenings start that day, and the kindergarten students don't actually start the full day until the following week.  I can speak from the lens of a in coming kindergarten parent, and when I registered my child for kindergarten, I had to submit my immunization immunization records,  and for some reason, on my immunization records, the lead screening wasn't listed. So I got a lovely note back from one of our schools saying, you know, your child needs to be screened for lead, called my pediatrician and learned that  it just wasn't included for whatever reason on that record. So they were able to send it's working separately.  I think there's. Some,  I think there are some hiccups that we're going to have to overcome,  through this process. And I think there are some folks who, you know, perhaps the older child was screened, found to be led free. Nothing in the environment had changed. And so the doctor recommended that the younger child not be screened. So we need to be able to maneuver through those scenarios or those folks who don't have the screening done  or have not had the screening done.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: What is our process? To assist them specifically if they're not coming in with that documentation in hand, that they have either had it done or they have a note

[9170-16] Jason Benware | Public commenter (self-ID 'Jason. Ben. Where?' [32], ward not given; l | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jason Benware: It said based upon the crime rates, drug use rates, and level of mental health, which was written poorly anyway because mental health is a good thing. Mental health issues are a bad thing, right? If you have mental health, you're you're actually good, right?
TEXT> Anyway, it's evident that  not enough lead testing was done or a lead screening has been done in this town. That's pretty presumptuous to believe that the reasons in the problems that we have in this town are based upon lead poisoning. Did did you guys read this, or was I the only guy who saw this? Because to me, that's a very presumptuous. Paragraph. Pull it out if you have it, read the last paragraph there. It was highlighted for me. Whoever sent it home with my for my kid because he's going to kindergarten. I read that I have a bassist and a background in science that's really not scientific at all. To think that the town and the problems that we have, our town, these are socio economic problems, are based upon kids being lead poisoned, not to mention the people, the adults who are acting in these manners, who even said they lived here when they were kids, they might have come from somewhere else. So let testing in Claremont would not have changed that. So even though I think what you guys are doing is very good, I think the message that you sent out in that letter was very poorly written, and I would suggest that you change that because.
NEXT> Jason Benware: The cause and the effect are very different. A kid who has led poisoning obviously has cognitive issues and many other things. But to say that the person who is

[9170-64] Kristen Parks | Vice President of Programs, Green Dot, etc. (presenter; self-ID [82],  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: of the things that comes up, obviously, is my assault, and I'm talking about my anger towards the man who hurt me and my anger towards these women who didn't help because in my mind, the guy who hurt me is just a bad person.
TEXT> Like there's just something fundamentally wrong with him. But my friends, my friends are good people. Those women are good people. And how could good people not help somebody? And as we start talking about it, and as I'm kind of letting all that stuff go, one of the things that comes up is that clearly they did care. They were glad he was gone. They were relieved he wasn't there anymore because they thought I might get hurt. It wasn't a lack of compassion that kept them from acting. It wasn't because they didn't care. That's not what kept them from doing something. They did care. And so I began to wonder, what if they just had things that made it hard for them? And to be honest, I'll probably never know exactly why they didn't do anything. But I do wonder. I wonder if they were worried that they were going to lose their jobs. Fast food jobs are not the most stable in the planet, and most of those women were supporting their families on their jobs. I was a teenager doing summer work, right? Like so. Maybe they were worried they lose their job and the impact that would have on their kids.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: Maybe they were worried that they were wrong or they were creating drama in the workspace. Maybe they were worried that he would retaliate against them in some way. Maybe

[9170-71] Kristen Parks | Vice President of Programs, Green Dot, etc. (presenter; self-ID [82],  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: But it didn't stop there. Mark went and told a bunch of his friends, hey, I created this really cool, awesome new thing called Facebook. It'll take you two minutes. And so they put in usernames, they put in passwords, and they create Facebook accounts.
TEXT> And then they tell their friends, it's going to take you two minutes. It's really quick and easy to do. And so they put in their username, they put in passwords and they create Facebook accounts. And they go home on summer vacation and on holiday breaks and see their friends from all of these other colleges. Hey, there's an easy way for us to keep in touch. It takes you two minutes. Put in a username, put in a password, and you've got a Facebook account. And we slowly begin to see this ripple across the entire country. Then Mark makes the decision to open it up to everybody. So now all of these college students, their younger siblings went on Facebook and then the parents get wind of it and we go, this could be a great way to keep tabs on my kids. And so then parents started joining Facebook, which we were convinced would then be the death of Facebook. Right? When parents  get involved, that's when things slowly become uncool. But that's not actually what happened. A lot of kids then started making multiple accounts, one that they fronted their parents with and one that was their actual real account. And so we actually saw a little bit of doubling in Facebook accounts.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: And today we have millions of active Facebook accounts all over the world. And I go, has the culture changed now? Yes. In a really big, really substantial way. We

[9170-94] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [69] and 'Missoula | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: applied to be part of it. We needed two communities. So Claremont and Keene, geographically were similar, demographically were similar, and so that they were chosen to be part of the pilot of this. And so they applied for it. Thank you. Yeah. Of course.
TEXT> My question is. How are we connecting this to our kids in the community, or how are we planning to connect this information? Yes, to kids in our community.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: So one of the ways that we are is we're actually we've hosted some youth summits. We did this back in October with some of your middle school, with your

[9170-95] Kristen Parks | Vice President of Programs, Green Dot, etc. (presenter; self-ID [82],  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: My question is. How are we connecting this to our kids in the community, or how are we planning to connect this information? Yes, to kids in our community.
TEXT> So one of the ways that we are is we're actually we've hosted some youth summits. We did this back in October  with some of your middle school, with your high school youth. So I came in and facilitated two days of youth summits. And to get your kids the information, there is the community program is targeted specifically towards adults. There is a high school program. But because this is being evaluated and this is kind of the nature of research, we don't want to overlap. So for for a period of time, you'll you'll want to keep it concentrated to the adults within your community. But certainly as we near the end of the study, we could expand into high schools. Yeah, it's part of the,  I think, pro and con of research as it can feel like. Well.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: To me, I'm just thinking at some point to start educating younger than their internalizing it quicker.

[9170-100] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: So.
TEXT> We've had many. Folks in the school district trained. They've completed the. Five hour bystander training.  I am one of the trainers for the initiative. And so there's a significant overlap at the adult. Level for this program, because we recognize the need for the reduction of violence for the benefit of our children. And so although we are not directly training our children in this model, we are training the adults  who work directly with our children in this model and expanding that across a larger population of our adults as we're able.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[9170-102] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> When you talk about, if I may, if you talk about the school community, this isn't about adults. This is also about children. Children want to be able to come into school and know they're going into school every day, feeling physically and emotionally safe, that they're not going to be bothered, and that at the safe place  and and that it's okay to to assist someone or to confront someone who is being bothered.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: Yes, absolutely. Absolutely.

[9170-159] Deb | Director, Turning Points Network (self-ID [250]; first name per [188], | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: Any other burning. Any questions.
TEXT> Just want to make one quick comment if I made a little bit tangential, but I just want to let folks know that Turning Points Network is currently in all of the Claremont schools doing violence prevention programing with youth. So even though green Dot, we're not allowed right now to have green Dot in the schools, we have a step curriculum K through 12 pre-K through 12th grade where we're we're teaching kids and faculty around bullying or anti-bullying, if you will. Sexual harassment safe. Safe relationships. Healthy relationships. So the kids or the youth are certainly getting programing. So just to let you all know that. Thank you, thank.
NEXT> Unidentified: You, thank you all. Well, thank.

[9170-185] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (co-presides; 'Chair Wrap' [4], 'That's u | 2017-06-22
PREV> Charlene Lovett: So how can we do what you're saying and it with how are we promoting the school district as a key element of economic growth in the city? If we can put that on the agenda, I think that would be good thoughts on that.
TEXT> I think part of what part of our discussions has been, not only student achievement, but also showing what kind of growth our children are getting as well.  And that part of that I ready data that we've been collecting.  Again, it's been the first year, but it has it does show what we've been doing as far as student growth.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[9170-207] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: looks like in our community. And then for us to talk about what we're seeing, both from the schools perspective and from his perspective. And. The courts, and share some additional information and data with you and have an opportunity. For some questions. So it.
TEXT> Looks like I'm getting closer to be able to pull up the film. We the Claremont School District is one of six recipients of a McKinney Vento sub grant that is the McKinney Vento Act is the Homeless Children and Youth Act that pertains to school districts. And it's a federally a federally funded program, and it's also federally mandated. And so with with this, one of the other partner school districts invited a filmmaker to our state. This filmmaker is someone who's done this on the national scale and is recognized in the, in the, you know,  in the  I wanted to say homeless community, but the homeless advocacy community, or homeless awareness community for her work. And she came she worked in Claremont. You'll see that in the film and across the state of New Hampshire. And we'll talk about that a little bit. So let me just get this started. Hopefully you'll be able to hear. Her name is Diane Nylon, and she works and founded an organization called heroes. So it's w w w us dot U.S.. And we're going to hope that this works.
NEXT> Unidentified: Just want people to know.

[9170-214] Unidentified | Unidentified - voices in the screened homelessness film (filmmaker ASR | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: have to go to college and I have to get a job, and I have to save money for an apartment. Sources. The best. Thing. About school without. Friends and. The call from school to school. So I saw all the same friends and stuff.
TEXT> So it's definitely difficult with my grades, because every schools in a different point at where they're learning something.  Definitely helping them out here. So I know what I'm doing and I know where I'm at with things, and I know people, I know my teachers, and I'm not afraid to talk to them. I love this school, and I love the people in what kind of affects. Of bouncing around. And you're going. To get food. You don't want them thinking that, you know, every time something good seems to come. When did you get swept out from underneath you? It's a grown up problem. It's an adult issue. You guys need to focus on being kids. Keeping your grades up, having your friends playing. The difference. My daughter was three and she was going to start coming school out here, and it one point, it was the only normal thing that she had. And I said, you know what, if everything else is crazy, I just don't want her education to be affected by it. You know, I might be here in the really counting pennies under the couch to try to scrapbook behalf of the only gopher right now. But her education will not be affected.
NEXT> Unidentified: You work with kids. The biggest thing, and it's definitely helpful when your teachers known and they give you the time that you need, and they work with you through

[9170-216] Unidentified | Unidentified - voices in the screened homelessness film (filmmaker ASR | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: that. But students are there other classmates for the school to give me clothes or food and have it sitting in a bad name class after I just got called out from the office? It's kind of just like things like it's time to face.
TEXT> If you don't have any shoes, sweetie. Okay, cool. Let's go. Hang on. And I just did a complete multiple. I ended up working in time to the counselor, and that's there. And she found them down and said, you don't really need to doing because now she mentioned that these handling a lot of stress right now and they can be way people, which I know first hand because I have hopefully stressed. And when you're not trying to hold all that in, we'll find anybody that you can go to school and not. I could definitely affect someone like very negatively and have to understand that they're not just a bad kid that they have on everything. Now is a. Real process. Now you can only tell us. About your applications that you think two years later something would have come to fruition, but not always the case. It's there was a problem with homelessness, but I didn't know that it was the extent of I think people have this perspective on whether it's in general or youth. I think they have like find it's like, okay, well, you know, are just a bunch of kids who want to run on the streets and, you know, they're choosing not to be home. And, you know, their choosing to do what they want to do and things like that. And it's like, you know, it's more than that. It's a one word or not.
NEXT> Unidentified: Now there are some kids that, you know, not just me and Sam. There are some kids that, yeah, they're running from home. But there's a reason why they can't

[9170-218] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: Just because you dress like you're not seeing yourself like did not, doesn't mean that you're not struggling. So you just have to understand that there's like stereotyping. And just like putting a face to a name isn't just it's dumb because it's not true.
TEXT> And  so that, film certainly had some landmarks in our community that I'm guessing, you all recognized as you watched it. Some of those students, some of those families are ours. They live here,  some of them are not there from other parts of the state.  And I think it's a good illustration of some of the things that we as a school district, see on a regular basis and some of the the issues that we're faced with. But I'd like to give judges and an opportunity to talk about what he's seeing from  his bench in our community, and then we can talk a little bit more about what we're seeing in terms of statistics and things like that from the school side in our community. That makes sense.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thanks for. That is video.

[9170-220] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks for. That is video.
TEXT> I'd seen it before. I so think of the young kids that you saw in that video, and then think about the young girl moving from one house to another with everything that she owns in a trash bag, literally everything she owns in a trash bag. It is a it's a painful thing. And, something that goes on in this community on a regular, regular basis. And I think that it is hidden. And I think people like me for too long have  had a great, the great benefit of being able to go home to a nice house and turn a blind eye to it. And I don't think we can do that. Any longer. So I just want to talk about that and introduce at the end of the table over there. Most of you probably know, we have two people from TLC. Maggie Monroe Castle is the director. Melanie Williams is one of the most important people in our community. And if you don't know what she does, I encourage you to to get to know her, because I see her on a regular basis and there are at least a couple dozen kids every year who make it through school and end up having a life, because that organization has made the effort to make sure that the that they do. So I want to talk a little bit about childhood poverty.
NEXT> Jack: For those of us who have lived here a long time and have raised our kids together, and that is most of us. And. I think we reckon we we

[9170-221] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jack: at least a couple dozen kids every year who make it through school and end up having a life, because that organization has made the effort to make sure that the that they do. So I want to talk a little bit about childhood poverty.
TEXT> For those of us who have lived here a long time and have raised our kids together, and that is most of us. And. I think we reckon we  we recognize that Claremont has historically had one of New Hampshire's highest levels of childhood poverty. 30 years ago, we had the second highest level of childhood poverty. In the 30 years that have gone by, we have had two major economic upswing in this country to large, long lasting upswing. This community has spent  millions, if not tens of millions of dollars  on economic development. 30 years later, we have the second highest level of childhood poverty in the state. I suggest to you that there's a connection between the two. If 20% of our children are living in childhood poverty, if 20% of our children between the ages of zero and three don't have appropriate health care, don't have a parent who reads to them on a daily basis, don't have food that is adequate for their nutrition and don't have the care that they need. They end up going to school at 4 or 5 totally unprepared, and then we expect the school to miraculously turn that around and it cannot do it.
NEXT> Jack: So what we end up with, if you look at those children on that video, they are going to be the parents of the next homeless generation and a guarantee

[9170-222] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jack: don't have food that is adequate for their nutrition and don't have the care that they need. They end up going to school at 4 or 5 totally unprepared, and then we expect the school to miraculously turn that around and it cannot do it.
TEXT> So what we end up with, if you look at those children on that video, they are going to be the parents of the next homeless generation and a guarantee that 30 years from now, if we keep this course, Claremont will still have one of the highest childhood poverty rates in the state. Back in the mid 80s, when the companies that fueled our economy, the tan brands and the Foundry and Sullivan Machine and Cohn Blanchard over in Windsor, they were really pumping out lots of product and employing lots of people. And we still have the second highest childhood poverty rate in the state. So unless we unless we find a way as a community  to actually acknowledge that exists, that it exists and understand that absent changing that,  we will not grow as a community. And it is clear to me and  most of you, well, those of you who have lived here for a long time, no, I was involved with the city for many, many years. I saw the efforts that were made to attract business. I saw the, the efforts that were made to  try and start give new companies a start.
NEXT> Jack: And yet I cannot remember once at a council meeting, not once. Anyone saying. And, Mr. Manager, I'm sorry to say this. Where are you? There you are. Right. I

[9170-224] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jack: about that, but I really, you know, I, I accept the a large portion of the blame for not recognizing the significance and the seriousness of little kids who don't have enough to eat, kids who have never had anyone read a book to them.
TEXT> And it's it takes its toll. It is it is a dehumanizing thing, as those little kids said, to grow up knowing when you go to school, you've got to be one of the kids that gets a backpack because no one can provide you with a backpack. We measure job growth. We  we measure. You can go online and measure wages. You can go online and  see what our taxes are and how much aid we get from the state and from the federal, from the federal government. But it is really difficult to see on the ground the impact that kids from 0 to 3 not having an appropriate home, the impact that that has on all of us  as a society. We're not alone. And I don't mean to say that we're alone because it is sadly, the, the vein of the existence of old mill towns in many, many ways. And we have a we have a tendency and I was guilty of this to a lot of times we blame the poor people. We blame poor for poor people for being poor.
NEXT> Jack: We and blaming poor people for their own poverty doesn't get us anywhere. We're not better than they are. Any one of us could have ended up in a situation

[9170-225] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jack: vein of the existence of old mill towns in many, many ways. And we have a we have a tendency and I was guilty of this to a lot of times we blame the poor people. We blame poor for poor people for being poor.
TEXT> We and blaming poor people for their own poverty doesn't get us anywhere. We're not better than they are. Any one of us could have ended up in a situation where you're in front of me, losing your home or losing your apartment, and I cringe when I know that I have to sign an eviction for a young mother who is going to be  homeless with three young children. So I want to concentrate on the kids. I really think that that's the important part. Forget about saying, well, why can't the parents do this? Or why isn't why isn't dad doing that? You have to concentrate on the kids and one way of doing that, and there are plenty. But one way of doing that is something that TLC has been doing for a long time, on a very small basis, that I think expanded into the home of every poor or every every mother to be who is under the poverty line, young family that is under the poverty line, and that is to have someone in that house on a regular basis, making sure that mom's
NEXT> Jack: health as she's pregnant is addressed, that the children's health and an ongoing basis is addressed, that they have books to read in, somebody to read to them. This is

[9170-226] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jack: think expanded into the home of every poor or every every mother to be who is under the poverty line, young family that is under the poverty line, and that is to have someone in that house on a regular basis, making sure that mom's
TEXT> health as she's pregnant is addressed, that the children's health and an ongoing basis  is addressed, that they have books to read in, somebody to read to them. This is the stuff that they do. I'm pointing at TLC with families in my court. When I'm able to get TLC involved. And this, this, this is graduation season. And I was invited to a half dozen graduations, both high school and college, from kids that were homeless,  were born into abject poverty that they worked with, and some other programs worked with that had their lives turned around. So it's possible, but it if it's possible for a small portion, it's it's possible for a larger group. And if we can if we can make a change for that larger group, believe me,  ten years from now,  in 20 years from now, we're not going to be sitting around talking about the the impact homelessness has on the schools and the impact the childhood poverty has on all of us. I sent some information out several months ago to to many of you.
NEXT> Jack: There's a Washington Post article that's described a program that is in place in many areas, but this particular one in Appalachia, the poorest area in Appalachia, called a nurse

[9170-229] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: to the table and thinking about what that New Hampshire housing wage is, and how do we address poverty from from that perspective, when we think about the free and reduced lunch rates in our community, our district wide rate tends to average around 50%,
TEXT> bluff elementary, 70%. This is from March. That's the most recent data I have. Claremont Middle School 49% desired, 59% Maple, 54% Stevens High School 40%. If we look at Stevens High School at 40%, and we know that we have Bluff Elementary School at 70%, people don't just randomly become less, impoverished as the kids get older. We just have an issue where once kids get into middle school, in the high school, the stigma becomes more of a reality and they don't fill out the paperwork. They don't want to be identified in any way as being recognized as in poverty. So the rates decline.  I, I'm optimistic that with the school board's adoption of a new food service vendor last night, not as much of the vendor, but the fact that we will have a point of sale, system in place that allows for greater anonymity for our students, that we will have a greater chance to have those students who need that support, get that support without any sort of stigma attached to it. When we think about this year's 20 1617, number of students who are identified as homeless were at 156. We have about 1753 students in our school district, and 156 of them were identified as homeless. This number is lower than last year. In years past,  this number is lower, primarily because in December of 2016, December 10th to be exact, and McKinney Vento law changed.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So formerly, students who are awaiting foster care were identified as homeless. Because they are in transition, they're lacking fixed, regular and adequate nighttime presence if they are to the

[9170-230] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: about 1753 students in our school district, and 156 of them were identified as homeless. This number is lower than last year. In years past, this number is lower, primarily because in December of 2016, December 10th to be exact, and McKinney Vento law changed.
TEXT> So formerly, students who are awaiting foster care were identified as homeless. Because they are in transition, they're lacking fixed, regular and adequate nighttime presence if they are to the level where they are awaiting foster care, it's because Jack has seen them, has seen them, and they are looking for a placement that is more appropriate than the placement in which they were living. So those students are no longer identified in that number. It's a different categorization. It's  a different categorical heading for those students now. So they're not included. And we were still at 156 kids. Yes.
NEXT> Unidentified: And this is.

[9170-232] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: And this is.
TEXT> Just include, a portion of that. But in any given time in its primarily Claremont when I talked about Sullivan County, but,  we have about 140 guardianships established in any given time. And that means that somewhere between 150 and 250 children, young children are being raised by someone who's not their parent. And it is usually a grandparent who can't afford to raise the children  or an aunt or uncle. So that statistic gets skewed a little bit because those kids, while they have a place to live. They are not living with a parent and they are living a spartan lifestyle. And if you  looked at, the numbers of guardianships, of course they have risen substantially because of the opioid crisis and it's going to continue to rise. But those kids  often end up going to a district that's maybe outside of this district. So they're changing schools mid-year, or they're changing the local schools that I know that our school system really does go out of their way to make sure that there's some kind of continuity in a child's life.  But the thought that this community of 13,000 people could have several hundred children living in an out of home placement is frightening to me.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we've had more parental deaths this year than we've had. In the past. Since you mentioned the opioid epidemic, and that is definitely having an impact on the schools.

[9170-234] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: or guardian, but they are still with a family member that doesn't always come through to us as a data point. So it's challenging for us to track or those who are in foster care because we had a mid-year transition with that, legal categorization.
TEXT> That's a challenge for us to track as well. So, those types of, of data points, there's no systematic process for tracking that across our district or the state. So it's much more you have to sort of go by hand, go through all of our kids, try to figure out based on other information points and other connections we have, who does,  who's categorize that way  just to help, with a better understanding of what our kids are dealing. Same thing with the number of students sent to placement via the court, the schools, we have a great working relationship with the court and other agencies, but there's not always a clear communication channel so that everyone is on the same page. And often there's some confidentiality things that need to be upheld as well. And so if there is a student who's placed, via the court, we don't always know that. And sometimes we're very good reason we don't know that. So those aren't things that we can always track cleanly,  those who have been placed in mental health facilities. I know we have had a number of our children this year be placed in mental health facilities for extended periods of time.  But again, that's not something that we have historically tracked. It's something that we want to track and need to track, because I think it helps paint a clear picture for everyone. But we we don't have this historical  data on that. You.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[9170-236] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> Everybody knows this. But for my own. Faction and maybe Melanie or Maggie, you can jump in here. The number of children that end up, needing an IEP, or, a separate plan that grow up or that were exposed to childhood poverty or domestic violence. Those rates are really stunning and shocking, and it's something that you end up dealing with at your level when a child enters school. But that that order, that map was already written long before you got them. So that I think that connection is so important to always keep in mind that if we're not reaching those children or the pregnant mothers and those children during that very formative, important period, then it's too late. It's too late.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Maggie's organization was able to show a film a few. Oh, gosh, it might have. Even been like a. Month or two ago now called resilience. And it was really

[9170-238] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: whether it is, you know, the, mental health, drug abuse, parents who are divorced, that brain that has experienced trauma is literally wired differently than a brain that is not experienced trauma. One of the things that we are hoping to be able to. Do.
TEXT> Working within the regulations around administering surveys, is to understand how many of our students, at least at the middle school and high school, have experienced adverse childhood experiences. And what does that look like? And not to pinpoint specific children, but to get a better understanding of what is our student population in our schools that have experienced levels of trauma, that really require us to respond differently for them to be successful? 50% of our fifth graders did not, start with us. So when we talk about the kids in this film who have been moving around to multiple different schools, half half of our fifth graders did not start with us. And so when we think about the education that we can provide them, it's fabulous. But half of them didn't start with us and haven't been privy to that education along the way. And all of these things are tied back to the idea. Not all of them. Thinking about research. They're obviously kids who have moved to us because of very positive reasons. You know, families are relocated or things like that for work. But those who have not, those who have experienced trauma, those who have experienced homelessness, those of experienced mental health issues and drug issues and things of that nature, that has a negative impact when we look at our students.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I did the data dive a couple of years ago now, so I haven't looked at it in the last year or two. Our identified population, those with an IEP

[9170-239] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: things like that for work. But those who have not, those who have experienced trauma, those who have experienced homelessness, those of experienced mental health issues and drug issues and things of that nature, that has a negative impact when we look at our students.
TEXT> I did the data dive a couple of years ago now, so I haven't looked at it in the last year or two. Our identified population, those with an IEP and an Individualized education plan, also known as special education, that rate for our district runs about 25%. It's about double the state average. When I compared the number of those students who were also in the poverty cohort or subgroup, if you will. There was about a 17% overlap when you're looking at at the time it was kneecap data. So those in grades three through eight, it's not as big of an overlap as you would expect it to be necessarily. So. So it just becomes another head of the multi-headed monster of what we're dealing with from the schools perspective. But I think what judge  is alluding to and what  Megan and Melanie do in their work is how can we target the kids before they're even more? How can we target those moms who are pregnant and help them get better prenatal care, better education about how to support their kids? How can we target our birth to five kids when we really have 80? I think it's 80% of the brain is formed by age three. Something a really large percentage of the brain is formed by age three.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I believe it's 80 or 85%. So how do we support those kids in the 0 to 3 range to better position them for later in life? So you don't

[9170-240] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: about how to support their kids? How can we target our birth to five kids when we really have 80? I think it's 80% of the brain is formed by age three. Something a really large percentage of the brain is formed by age three.
TEXT> I believe it's 80 or 85%. So how do we support those kids in the 0 to 3 range to better position them for later in life? So you don't you can break that generational poverty cycle  because it is a cycle. We see the same families. Judge has been doing this a long time. There's others of you in this room who have been doing this for a long time. Whatever your work is. And you see now the the grandchildren of the parents you saw many moons ago  who are having similar issues because it's a cyclical process. And so when we think about how do we change it for the future and how do we how do we shift that trajectory? We need to think about what are we doing with those kids, because that's where we have the greatest impact, and that's where we can have the greatest success. We are fortunate as a school district to be able to work with organizations like Turning Points Network and like TLC, and partnering on different initiatives. We have our one for all space, which is our, our.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We have an early childhood fit coordinator. They are targeted our homeless families 0 to 5. And we have seen tremendous success with that so far. But there's a lot

[9170-241] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: that's where we can have the greatest success. We are fortunate as a school district to be able to work with organizations like Turning Points Network and like TLC, and partnering on different initiatives. We have our one for all space, which is our, our.
TEXT> We have an early childhood fit coordinator. They are targeted our homeless families 0 to 5. And we have seen tremendous success with that so far.  But there's a lot more that we could be doing, I think as a community, if we could come together as a community and talk about what we could collectively do. It's nice that we had the green Dot presentation first and this presentation second, because now I can leverage what you learned there. Nobody in this room has to do anything miraculous. We all just have to do some small thing, our little part, to change the culture in our community around these issues and around  how we can support, support our children, because our children are what are going to help us break these cycles and have us come out on the other side with a with a different outcome than what we've seen for the last 30, 40, 50 years.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And if I could just say one thing, when we talk about the children that we're discussing today, these children have a needs. But it's not just we can't turn

[9170-242] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: we can support, support our children, because our children are what are going to help us break these cycles and have us come out on the other side with a with a different outcome than what we've seen for the last 30, 40, 50 years.
TEXT> And if I could just say one thing, when we talk about the children that we're discussing today, these children have a needs. But it's not just we can't turn our back on them because if we turn our back on them,  we turn our back on all our children. Because in a public school setting, these children with their needs and our obligation to address those needs, they also have an effect on their classmates and they are entitled to they are entitled to at least restrictive environment. So I've been we've talked about adverse childhood experiences through TLC turning points. But now it's going to be you talk about judge childhood poverty. We also have to keep on our plate adverse childhood experiences. And we when we develop the budget, we're going to have to break from the norm  because our clientele need that adjustment and how we spend our funds.
NEXT> Unidentified: I would. Like to say something. I would. Like to say thank you, judge, for coming out here and breaking the ice, so to speak. I am a grandparent. Raising

[9170-252] Unidentified | Unidentified - woman on the school board side (refers to 'we talked la | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: understand each individual person and even opening a space so that everybody can just come and talk and and tell their stories and, and say, you know, I want to make it. I want, I want to be somewhere in my life. That was me.
TEXT> And that's why I do what I do. I volunteer for all the things I volunteer for because of having to need services. It's not easy to go ask for a scholarship or to be told that I can't have an IEP for my grandson because he's too smart. Even though we deal with huge behavioral issues. So there's there's lots of things encounters. However, there's me, I've made it, I'm doing okay, and I'm surviving. So I believe that if we all take the time to get to know other people in our community and understand them, then we will be able to somehow in the green dot way or however, help, whether it's a listening ear someday, or a food card or a gas car, it doesn't matter. It's you've got to start by listening to the people who are in it, not necessarily who can fix it at the moment, but who are in it, so that you can start understanding those barriers because you can't see those barriers. If you're on the outside, you need to understand the inside of the the belly of it. Several months ago, there was an. Article. In the. Local paper. And it was. About. The children in our school system and how many of the children. Were.
NEXT> Unidentified: In poverty level. And I was absolutely shocked. I had no idea. And, that's my fault that I didn't know. But being the person that I am, I right away

[9170-256] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: I don't know. Does the school district have a way to connect people once you identify them outside of all? For one correctly, I always get one for all. So if that outside of that, is there a way to direct people to other resources?
TEXT> We do our. I don't know that it's always enough. I guess. We work hard. We have, a few staff members who are dedicated specifically  to helping our neediest populations. But some times the issues are so insurmountable that the staff that we have in place just isn't enough to address everybody's needs. And,  I mean, we're not alone in that. But we we do. And I think that one of the challenges once, once we have the kids in school, once they hit that magic kindergarten age and they're in our sights, there's a lot more that we can do for them. It's those children who are before school age  that we we can't always connect with because we don't know that they exist. If they happen to be a younger sibling, then we can we can connect with them if they happen to be attending, you know, a pediatrician, well, visit and the pediatrician identifies them as needing additional services. And, you know, we pick them up for special education at age three  as a school system. But there's very few mechanisms for us as a school system to support those children ages 0 to 5.  Basically, if they don't have an older sibling or some other connection with the school system. And so that's the population I. I guess I most worry about because I know that there's the, the, the greatest impact can happen for that 0 to 5 population.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And they're the ones that we as a school system. Don't. Always know about or can't identify.

[9170-264] Melanie Williams | Staff member, TLC (named by the judge [464]; recognized 'Melanie' [606 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: Melanie, you wanted to say something? Yeah, I.
TEXT> Wanted to say that I. I think we can change. I think that there is hope. And sometimes, like you were saying, Michel, just having one person believe in you, you know that we are seeing generations of, you know, poverty or trauma and and somebody from our agency, you could meet the other staff to they go in and they connect with people. And so it is about the kids. But it starts with the parents. And if we can connect with the parents and make help them to see how important their role is and how important it is to have stable housing, how important it is to read to them every day, how important it is to have you know, the formula that they need, and to help them figure out how to make those things happen and have those things available, and to have that attachment with their child that fuels them to keep going and to make sure they have formula and to make sure that they can pay the rent, because that's where it comes from.
NEXT> Melanie Williams: Like, we could help and give these give supports, which we should do concrete support sometimes. But really what fuels maintaining that is the attachment. And that's what we're focused

[9170-265] Melanie Williams | Staff member, TLC (named by the judge [464]; recognized 'Melanie' [606 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Melanie Williams: those things happen and have those things available, and to have that attachment with their child that fuels them to keep going and to make sure they have formula and to make sure that they can pay the rent, because that's where it comes from.
TEXT> Like, we could help and give these give supports, which we should do concrete support sometimes. But really what fuels maintaining that is the attachment. And that's what we're focused on. And if we could get in to every home and talk about attachment and how important that is in the first three, five years, that would be amazing. You know, because I did some statistics before I came here, which I'm not really good at, but I did a little bit. And so 78% of the families that we're serving right now are struggling with finances in some way. And and so we would like to serve everyone, not just people who are struggling financially, but we are really happy that we're in those homes where people are struggling financially because we're there to say, we believe in you, you can do this, it can be different and you can be successful. And here's how you know, and here's how you can take care of your baby in a healthy way. And when you respond to them crying, that tells them that the world is safe, that you're safe and and what what difference would that make if our kids grew up knowing that they were secure and safe in their home, and then in our community as well?
NEXT> Melanie Williams: So I have hope is what I wanted to say, and I apologize. I have to leave because I thought we were only going to 845, so my sitter ends

[9171-9] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Opposed? And I will abstain. I missed that meeting. Superintendents report. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. I. It's always nice to receive awards. And  I received an award. I did not receive an award. Stevens High School received an award from the Department of Health and Human Services. The New Hampshire immunization program elected to recognize Stevens High School for achieving a high student immunization coverage for 1617. Immunizations remain one of the most effective public health interventions to prevent  infectious diseases. This certificate demonstrates Stevens High school accomplishments in ensuring students are up to date with required school immunization. And I'm going to present this to Pat Berry. It's not very colorful, but it's a. Stevens High School received a letter grade of A. Even though we're standards based grading, it's still important that  we're we're taking care of our children. And the other thing I'd like to share with you. I did send you all  this afternoon, as well as  the administration,  an article dated June 9th. School suspensions, test scores and lead poisoning. And the good news is, is that we have a policy and we're increasing the awareness of lead poisoning. But,  recently the school board meeting, we had a discussion of adverse childhood experiences and the behavior of certain children because of the trauma.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But clearly, there is evidence that an increased elevation of lead may also have an impact on a child's behavior. There are many variables, of course, so it's not one

[9171-10] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: lead poisoning. And the good news is, is that we have a policy and we're increasing the awareness of lead poisoning. But, recently the school board meeting, we had a discussion of adverse childhood experiences and the behavior of certain children because of the trauma.
TEXT> But clearly, there is evidence that  an increased elevation of lead may also have an impact on a child's behavior.  There are many variables, of course, so it's not one size fits all. But,  as I said in the email, we have work to do. But the good news is we're talking we're talking about it  and working with  different agencies. I received the phone call from a  a pediatrician that happened to be in Vermont, where a Claremont parent takes her children, and the pediatrician was asking about our policy and to be sure that they're in compliance. So the word is getting out and the word getting out, meaning that we hope to make the community more aware and to enhance our,  our, our wellness of our children. And last on that same point,  tomorrow, Gail Gittins, who made the presentation to all of you,  actually to the city council and the school board last fall,  she's going to be meeting with Pat Berry and myself and Joel Schneider, director of our tech center, in talking about some federal funding that may help with additional education for students who will enter into the trades, because entering into the trades, there is exposure to lead.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So that is we continue we continue down this pathway. And since the last board meeting, it's been a whirlwind, but we've the school year has ended and the administration

[9171-17] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: All right. I guess we'll move on to citizens comments for citizens. Comments. We'll close citizens comments and move to discussion items, which is our academic achievement goals. Student measured growth in reading, math and writing.
TEXT> This  is the the end of our first  2016 2017 year where we have been,  focusing on, on on academic achievement, meaning  the growth that our students demonstrate in reading and in mathematics. Different levels, different schools. Different.  The elementary is in one place. The middle school and high school are in another place, because we all didn't come out of the gate at the same time with with this initiative. But,  in the near future, especially next year, there will be uniform presentations regarding  our students growth  as well as regarding how we are responding to that growth. Very, very pleased with the presentation I made to the faculty.  On the 14th of June, showing the the measured growth in reading and mathematics at our three elementary schools.  Quite, quite impressive. I think I know there's also growth going on at our  middle and high school, but we don't we're not in a place to present that as we would in the elementary. But tonight there will be a discussion of whether across district regarding  academic achievement goals. And remember this is not a one year goal. This is a multi year goal.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Attendance in Stevens High School, those going on to post-high school experiences. Educationally that's a multi year goal. The goal is to increase that percentage. And the goal is to

[9171-18] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: don't we're not in a place to present that as we would in the elementary. But tonight there will be a discussion of whether across district regarding academic achievement goals. And remember this is not a one year goal. This is a multi year goal.
TEXT> Attendance in Stevens High School, those going on to post-high school experiences. Educationally  that's a multi year goal. The goal is to increase that percentage.  And the goal is to over time to see an increase in the in the measurable growth of our students elementary, middle and high school. And to report out publicly and also the report out publicly if it's not going well, if it's not going well, that's nothing to be ashamed about. If we have a response and a plan to address it. What's wrong is if it's not going well and we don't discuss it, discussing it isn't the shame of blame, as you've heard me say it, to be honest about what's going on and plan accordingly. So I welcome my administrative colleagues who are just beyond eager to come forth and. Soccer soccer practice. Well, I'm very pleased to tell you in the community that the assistant superintendent has their priorities correct, and that is, take care of my children first, and the board will wait. And you know what? We'll wait just a few minutes as Corey does what any good parent does. So that being said, perhaps we could jump right down to the handbook you did receive last week.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Last Friday, I believe it was a copy of electronic copy of the Claremont Middle School 20 1718 Handbook and a cover sheet showing where the changes are. And Paula

[9171-21] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> So yes, you received,  you should have received a copy  with the anticipated revisions. We are a little earlier than the other schools because we have our handbook  put inside of our student planners. So that's why it has to be in,  actually by the 27th of June. So that's why I'm presenting a little earlier than other people. And I think we had I brought a copy last year, and you were able to see that I probably should have brought a copy this year for the new people.  So  as you could see on the revision page, there are not a lot of changes.  We,  Of course, the welcome letter will be updated. The personnel saw six personnel. Pages will be updated. Our staff page will be updated. And we also have a cover contest. So our sixth graders participate in,  this contest. And so whoever wins  their piece of artwork becomes our cover. So I updated who that student is this year.  And so just stop me if you have any questions, okay? About anything that I'm saying.
NEXT> Paula Fitzgerald: Page two. Late to school. We reworded that a little bit. If students are not in their advisory by 745, then they are considered tardy. If you are tardy without

[9171-54] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Just a little sweaty.
TEXT> So as long as our tech folks,  or on top of their game, this will work perfectly without any glitches, and we'll be able to roll. I guess they are. So it's as it's coming up, this is to recap kind of where we've been this year with our student data. So in the mid year,  it actually ended up being a little bit more like March. We presented the I already data to you. This is our internal assessment of our students. So it's not the state assessment accountability measure but our internal process. We used to use the NWA assessment map. And now we have switched to I ready. And this was our first year for that implementation. With this we do beginning of the year mid-year and end of year. And so what we'd like to show you tonight is the growth of students from beginning of the year to end of year. Some of these slides you literally have seen before because they were the midyear slides. But I just want to recap some of that information. So you  are grounded in the same understanding across the board.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'd like you to do a.

[9171-57] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> So we have achieved goals that we've been working on this year. And you've been made privy to these goals. They've been discussed at various lengths at various times.  But our our focus has been on growth. So how far are we moving students from the moment we receive them to the moment that they leave us? Not all of our students come to us proficient. Not all of our students leave us proficient. So we're not necessarily yet talking about proficiency if they've met that,  that end,  goal of how much they know. But we're, we're focused more on how much have we impacted them while they're with us and how much have they grown. So our goals  are for math and reading vary by level. These were set by the administrative team.  And for the first year,  this is actually a five year plan. And so,  we have met some of these in the first year. And we'll talk about that a little bit more in a moment. But for math, we had a goal of 70% of our students would meet their growth target for the year. In grades K through five. So again, that's not 70% of our students necessarily  on grade level or proficient, but they have met the target growth for that year.  Reading 80% of our kids in grades K through five. And you'll see up here that the percentages vary a little bit by grade level.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: With the assessment. There is expected growth by grade level. And so that's how we set those goals. Okay. So you'll see up here on the screen and it will

[9171-62] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Grade level.
TEXT> The first column is the number of kids at the mid-year who are meeting the mid-year target and the number of kids at the mid-year  and winter who were meeting the end of year target. So the middle column is the number of students in January when we tested them, who are already meeting that end of year growth target. And then the right hand column up here is the number of students, the percentage of students who have met that growth target by the end of the year. So you'll notice that in grades one and two, we have already exceeded our five year goal of 7,070% of our students meeting the end of year growth target. Grades 352%, grade 462%, and grade 552%. These percentages are across all three elementary schools. It's aggregated data. They're pulled together. So that's looking at our entire grade three, not a grade three just at one particular school okay. Excuse me. That was reading. This is math. No, this is math in grade six, seven and eight. Sorry, I got confused when I'm not running my own cooker. So again, the first is the mid-year. The middle is where they were at in the winter. How many students are meeting the end of year target in the winter when we tested, and the right hand column is the percentage of students meeting the end of year target in the spring. So,
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Typically anywhere in the, the high 30s to mid 40s, Pat is going to be able to speak a little or I will speak a little to the high school

[9171-63] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: middle is where they were at in the winter. How many students are meeting the end of year target in the winter when we tested, and the right hand column is the percentage of students meeting the end of year target in the spring. So,
TEXT> Typically anywhere in the, the high 30s to mid 40s, Pat is going to be able to speak a little or I will speak a little to the high school and why that might look a little different in grades nine and ten than other grade levels.  But that's our end of year growth for math,  and reading will be next K-5. One through five. Excuse me. So 67%, 58%, 52%, 54% and 56% of our kids,  meeting that end of year target for spring and grades six through ten  a little stronger overall in reading for grades six through ten than math.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[9171-65] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So if we look at those students so this now we're shifting more toward proficiency again away from growth a little bit more toward proficiency. So how many of our kids are on or above grade level. They're either at grade level right where they need to be or they're slightly above. This is mass. So the light blue is the fall and the dark blue is the spring. So that's the growth from fall to spring of the number of students who are on or above grade level, grades one through five. So you see some pretty significant jumps there. In first grade we started the fall, only 13% of our kids were on grade level. We ended this year with 72% of our kids on grade level.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay, so.

[9171-67] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Okay, so.
TEXT> Grade six, seven and eight again, we saw growth in every grade level there. And grades nine and ten. And then moving forward we'll look at reading. So grade one we started the year with 14% of our students on grade level. We ended the year with 67% of our students on grade level. So dark blue is on or above grade level. The and the spring. The light blue is the fall. It's great. Six, seven and eight.  And then we'll look at nine and ten.
NEXT> Unidentified: Go ahead.

[9171-69] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Go ahead.
TEXT> I am going to invite the principals up to talk if they choose to,  about the data at their level.  And so I want to sort of set the stage for that. This was our first year of implementation with I ready, we really set out this year to just be able to ensure that all testing windows were completed in that time, that the kids became familiar with the testing structure,  that the teachers could get familiar with the resources and understand how to apply and use those resources in their classroom. And so, we we knew that this was a  first year of implementation for us.  And there's things that we know we want to change in our implementation for next year as a result of the learning that occurred this year. So I'd like our principles to talk a little bit about that. Just 2 or 3 minutes if you'd like. Do you want to start Dan.
NEXT> Dan: There are a ton of things that we're learning right now along with the kids. One of the expectations for I ready is that children access it 45 minutes a

[9171-70] Dan | Elementary school principal, apparently Maple Avenue per [174] (first  | 2017-06-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: want to change in our implementation for next year as a result of the learning that occurred this year. So I'd like our principles to talk a little bit about that. Just 2 or 3 minutes if you'd like. Do you want to start Dan.
TEXT> There are a ton of things that we're learning right now  along with the kids. One of the expectations for I ready is that children access it 45 minutes a week in reading and in math. So 90 minutes a week, there's an expectation that they are working with this tool.  I know that in our first year implementation, we really struggled to hit that target. That's a pretty big cultural change for us  when we have people who already are running on a hamster wheel all day and now say, kind of like you have 90 minutes less. And so we're doing is we have a we have a big cultural gap of showing our teachers what this tool and resource can do,  as well as how it can complement and match what they're doing instructional. So that's one of the things that we're going to be exploring next year. The other thing is that, we have all of this data is like the first look data where we're getting really ready to go deeper with this. Some of the initial findings of just kind of digging a little deeper on the reading side, because those numbers were concerning to us, as we see some real gaps in  phonics,  at the elementary level.
NEXT> Dan: And that's going up through, all the way up through our fifth graders. And so now what we're doing is we're kind of doubling back, looking at our reading program,

[9171-75] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Frank' [47], [410], [416]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: to absorb all that you're throwing at them. So if there's a goal, I think it would be to try to find those older kids. And as you look through the data and they get to the high school, obviously that window continues to close.
TEXT> When you get into ninth and 10th, it's even a smaller gap. So I think from my point of view, the gap the  challenge becomes finding those ways to address the learning gaps and those kids, when it really does take some creativity and things that maybe are a little bit different than we've done in the past, that don't work with the younger kids because of the younger kids capacity. Sure.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So I think there's a couple of things to keep in mind. One is, at age nine, the brain chart starts shedding. And basically I think it's neurons. And I'm

[9171-88] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; answers roll as 'Brian Rath' [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Dan: It's exciting stuff. But and it's just generating lots more questions. But they're they're really good questions. Right. Questions we should be spending time on.
TEXT> It's interesting. You know, my kids came home when they  found out about some of their scores and stuff. And,  it seems like some of the kids are excited about it. And they were talking about some of the other kids that had raised their points over a hundred points. And they're just kids that.  Oh, it's just neat that they're they're taking an interest in it and they understand what it's about. And it's sort of like almost like a competition to see what they can do.
NEXT> Dan: Well, we described it as a as a runners runner's marathon. When you see all those people at the start of that race, they're all starting with their finger on

[9171-92] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Sure.
TEXT> So for the purpose of reporting here, we're looking more holistically. So overall, in all of the strands of reading, what is the average growth overall for for all of our students?  We have the ability and Dan alluded to this earlier to break it down by the individual child and even further to look at how are they performing in phonics, phonemic awareness in the different comprehension. And so at the building level and at the grade level, they are looking and diving into the data with that level of detail. For this purpose, you would have been sleeping by now had I had I shared that level of detail. So when I were talking about the numbers up here, it's about what percentage of our kids,  are making the the growth that we need them to be making to get them to achieve where we need them to achieve. And that's what we're talking about, because that's what's.
NEXT> Dan: We haven't had a chance to do. The deep dive, the deep.

[9171-157] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Paula Fitzgerald: so they know exactly what to look for active proctoring as they're walking around, so that we don't have any YouTubers who are listening to their music while taking the test, because it made us question how many other students were able to do this.
TEXT> And  and so then it impacts the validity of our scores. So that was one of the the areas test administration, also increasing the conversations that we're having with our students about why they're taking the test. We've done that. I think we can do a better job of informing them why they are taking this test. And what do these scores really mean for them? The other area is the use of the online instructional component. One of the things that we didn't realize that the outset, and as we really started to, to get our feet wet, was that  the  online instructional component  caps out at eighth grade. So if you have students who are above that eighth grade level, it's not really useful for them. So that was another  Oh we have to rethink this a little bit. So going forward next year we're looking at  are really our neediest kids being on that online component. The kids who are on grade level, some of them may need meat, may need it to some degree. Our kids who are above grade level won't need it.
NEXT> Paula Fitzgerald: We need to do other things for them. So that in turn ties into our wind block, which is our what I need block. So, we are looking at looking

[9171-162] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: In one.
TEXT> Sitting in one sitting. But we also had some technology issues because we had all of the kids on it  or not. About half of the kids on it at one time. So we're working through those. We're increasing the number of Chromebooks that we have, so we're hoping that that will also help. But again, because it was new and this was our first go at it, I think we can improve. I think the teachers are learning, how to use that online component a little more. They can go in, they can assign certain lessons. In the beginning, we we weren't  well versed in how to do that. But the teachers are  becoming better at that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay.

[9171-178] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: have more training that we will be doing and more time allotted to better understand what all of these reports are, what they mean, how to use it in your classroom, how to use it to free up other time that you were previously spending.
TEXT> And I have heard that from teachers already this year,  that they're now not spending as much time creating all of these other lesson plans for their instructional subgroups and things of that nature.  I, I can't speak to the individual levels the same way that the principals would. But I get I'm guessing you'll get sort of a mixed bag of responses of where their comfort level is right now. Because it's a new product.  It's, in my opinion, better than some of those other products where you can select and determine. We did some pretty extensive research before we chose this particular product, looked at many,  established a selection criteria ahead of time. We wanted something that was better for parents, more easily understood. We wanted something that gave teachers more information to use immediately, not this higher level information that doesn't really help them. Tomorrow we wanted something that could help them immediately and help them better prepare for their students. And so this will do all of that. But we're going to need some time to get to a place where we have the the majority of our folks come for in doing that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[9171-188] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: And I know it's I don't really expect really an answer because it's I know it's going to take a it's going to take what you say, you know, 3 or 4 years.
TEXT> But we're all excited and we want to see results. Right? I think that's kind of what you're saying too. So we we all want to see our kids doing better. So so I get that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Michelle, you got a question?

[9171-193] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [172], [293], [43 | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Fall with it, right?
TEXT> But I mean, as far as like getting it out to the community, I feel like maybe because the children don't understand the testing, you know, and you're saying, how can we maybe we need to be a little bit more public, bring it out, back out on the board and say, this is I ready again and and describe it.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Super fast. I just wanted to give a plug. My kids love it. Just so you know. And I as a parent love it. I love getting the information. It's

[9171-225] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (referred to as 'Pat' [101], [323]; pre | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Oh we're going to talk.
TEXT> Two minutes. Good evening. So basically the you saw the numbers at the ninth and 10th grade kind of flatlined in both math and reading. You know, the things that you have to report to you tonight are a lot like what I reported to you in the winter. What we did that was different is is by nature how we're set up at the high school. So we we actually had three times as many of our students in ninth and 10th grade in math classes in the fall, and three times more students taking their English classes in the spring. It's just the way the schedule laid out our ninth and 10th graders. So we made the decision to get a baseline to do all ninth and 10th graders all three sessions. So it does. There's no way to to segue out, right? Who is in a math class in the fall and what that looked like versus so you're.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Not with I ready with other stuff.

[9171-228] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (referred to as 'Pat' [101], [323]; pre | 2017-06-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: our ninth and 10th graders alphabetically in sections to the library where they took their tests, and they were proctored by non math and Ela personnel. They were they were proctored by different staff. Something we will do differently next year is a only test.
TEXT> The students in math and English when they're in their math and English classes, beginning and after, to get a more specific focus on on what their actual growth is. And so we're not looking at the whole group, and we will do it in the classroom, and the proctors will be their English and their math teachers. So this year it has been removed from the classroom, removed from the curriculum and removed from the teacher. We want to make the teachers a part of this so that they're working with their students. They know their students better. We'll see what a difference in the venue  makes for these students, and what different numbers we see when it's just a pre and post within that semester and not a year long,  number. That's that's two things that we've learned. And then what we really want to look at is what role does this play in our intervention system. How can we better use it in flex? How can  we plan flex in a way in which we are able to take out students who show a need for remediation by their I ready scores and just work with them? And who's going to do that work?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Because right now flexes for every single subject that a student has is only four days a week. It's 40 minutes a day. So if that's students really showing a

