[15228-454] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2023-08-02
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: And to clarify. Families only need to qualify, not utilize the free and reduced in order for us to do it as a district.
TEXT> That is right. That is right. So you don't have to use it if you don't want to. But if you qualify, it gets to school like at $2,300 a student, which is a lot of money to the tax base. So,  I think still we're doing okay with our numbers, meaning our percentages aren't bad based on where they were. But I do feel there are other things in play here that aren't just the fact that people aren't filling out applications. I think that the demographics and of course, the financial status of people are changing because of Covid and because of the cost of things that have gone up. And if the federal government doesn't increase their guidelines enough to make up for that, because just because you're making $15 an hour and the cost of groceries and everything else has gone up, you're still in the same boat you were, whether it was a $10 an hour. Right.  So again, I, I, I can't express it enough for people to fill out the application. Even if you think you don't qualify, please do it. And if the guidelines are too low. Please look into those other two options the chain up and the snap. Because they do have different guidelines to to meet. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So in one of the slides it's you talking about the free and reduced lunch student count and statement. Students that receive to an F and Snap benefits automatically qualify

[9850-319] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: So 50. 858 and, and we don't know all the details, nor will we know the details of some of the names on this list. So I just want to make that very clear.
TEXT> I mean, I recognize some of the names on here and often college kids that graduate looking for something to to do for a year, get some experience while they're exploring other options, and that can happen.
NEXT> Unidentified: I find. Myself so I. Have a part two. Anyone else. Just to go back to the budget and the English positions, did we end up cutting that position out

[11510-59] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: A, B, C, D world, and now we're talking about learning targets and competencies and D's and SB it's, it's hard to, to grasp where their child is in comparison to other students and what those letters mean and what they're seeing in power school.
TEXT> And so I want to just make sure that there's a clear understanding that we're not talking about abandoning competency based education,  at all. We're talking about changing the way in which we report that out so that it's more user friendly, more accessible to our teachers. And a given example,  Right now, the system is that we grade learning targets, okay. The learning targets live under grand competencies. So 3 to 5 competencies usually in a course and then dozens of learning targets in those competencies. And it's the learning target that's graded. So when a parent or student goes into power school to look at their child's grade and they look at the assignments, all they see are check marks next to the assignment. They don't see a grade there.  And it can be a little bit,  cumbersome to navigate the current system in power school, not to mention then understanding what it is that they're looking at. A student can literally and I've seen it happen almost daily with our current system have a WDA proficient with distinction, the highest grade that they can get up on today.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And I can go into power school tomorrow, and teachers will have put in a variety of assessments, and that can go down to an SBP in 24 hours, substantially

[15638-99] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Christine Baker: the 55 students need work in that area. So that's what that graph shows. The blue shows that they're on, that they're okay. And then the green shows that we have a little bit of a, meeting or above expectations in that competency school assemblies.
TEXT> This is to celebrate success, to build school and community pride.  I'm not sure why video link isn't there, so maybe you have to listen to it, I don't know. I created a chant at the beginning of the school year.  Oh, there it is. And so at the beginning of each assembly, the students say this chant, which is. Quite something to see. That's what side.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. Sounds like a story.

[8114-188] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' and ASR 'Milton') | 2016-01-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: We.
TEXT> Were when a child left Claremont and went to another district. We weren't sending the entire student packet. We were making copies of certain documents and sending it. And the reason was that the mobility of some students and the anticipation they would return. So imagine if you have a certain population who are more mobile and you go from district or district or school to school over a certain number of years, that's very different than a child in a bedroom community who goes  grade one, two, three, four in the school, five, six. There's a difference. Now that's not an excuse, and I'm not using that as one. I'm just saying we can compare different parts of our state and different things going on. But there are still, though, unique differences  and important issues that we need to be able to identify and drill down in. So it's not easy, but we're on it. We're on it. And, Bob, your comments and the issue about 24, 25% versus 15, 16%, that's that's troubling. But it may not be just a simple we just overridden I think that's a piece of it. But it's not just that's the answer.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And I totally agree with that. And I've always had an issue with comparing to any community. Claremont, Claremont we need to focus on it really doesn't matter what Newport

[10463-168] Courtney Porter | School social worker and McKinney-Vento homeless liaison, Claremont Sc | 2019-07-25
PREV> Heather Whitney: question, I guess more because it seems like a tremendous windfall. How how are the backpacks allocated? Is it first come first serve. And my only concern would be is that if it's an expectation and then you have first come first serve and then.
TEXT> So thank you Heather. So what we've done in the years past is that we've always kind of had a  a spot, and there would be hundreds and hundreds of backpacks there and families would come and say, our event started at ten. We would have families who would start lining up at 8 a.m. because they knew that their children  could not start school without that backpack. So we're doing something different this year. So we have over 600 backpacks that are being donated. The mission behind this Claremont Back to School festival is creating relationships. So what we're doing this year is that we, like I said, we have over 600 backpacks. We are more than prepared, but we're actually going to have families connect with their school first. So if you have kids at bluff, at Maple, at Disney, or that CMS at the high school,  what we're going to ask is that you first go to your school table. We want you to say hi to your principal. We want you to say hi to your guidance counselor. And then what they're going to do is they're going to check on on their enrollment forms.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: Oftentimes what we find through our school district is when the day starts and it's school day one. Oh my gosh, something happened with Courtney. We're going to try and

[10639-86] Michael Petrin | SAU 6 Board Chair; Claremont School Board member | 2019-12-05
PREV> Unidentified: Rate.
TEXT> It'll in the long run. It's a it should be a cost saving.  We're not going to see it today or tomorrow, but,  down the road, you know, it's so in my opinion, this money that we're going to spend for these programs is going to affect not just special ed,  but normal, typical children, whatever, because then you can reroute some money in other directions and put it in other areas. That's the goal. Long term savings over the short term. So yes, we could give it all back. You could save short term. But I think Eric goal is to save in the long run.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I think it also needs to be pointed out when people ask about balloting. And why can't we all just vote on this at an election, blah, blah, that kind

[9328-219] Larissa Cahill | Theater arts teacher, Stevens High School; scheduling committee co-lea | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: Take it?
TEXT> Yeah. Well. And somebody jump in. If.  If I'm getting it wrong. But we just want the time. We we don't know yet what the avenue is going to be. And we talked. And again, we're keeping our minds extremely open  about what the day could look like and what, meta planning, what that could look like as well. So we're not trying to put it in any boxes. But when we talked about what an ideal schedule would look like it would be, what would it have in it as well as what we imagined, you know, the day to day, the minutia of it would be. So one of the things that was extremely important to us was time. Collaborative time. And and again, I want to make sure that that's the big picture collaboration between for students, for colleagues, for community partnerships. So I don't know if I'm getting that wrong.
NEXT> Unidentified: Or if.

[16951-28] Rod Beaton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-11-05
PREV> Rod Beaton: get something soon, that there can be community involvement, that we are aware and confident that the principles are involved in all of the planning that's going to happen at the elementary level, and if anything's going to happen at the upper levels as well.
TEXT> Secondly, there's something on the agenda for talking about the status of bluff and of maple and desired after the transition. But there's nothing talking about the other schools. And,  there's a lot of concern about what's going on at the middle school right now. There is an extreme shortage of staffing. I don't have exact numbers, but it seems like from last year it's approximately down 40% on the staff that was there last year in terms of teachers that were not rehired, positions that weren't filled, and people that have left at this point,  from what we are hearing from students and teachers, there's no place for students that are disruptive in class to go. There's no place for the teachers to send them to. The teachers aren't able to leave the room for, you know, to go to the bathroom to do anything because there's just no one to cover.  Some of the long term subs that are there right now seem a little bit questionable from what we've heard.  And it just it seems like a really bad situation that's going on over there right now.
NEXT> Rod Beaton: And it doesn't seem like it's getting the attention that it should right now. And one thing in particular, it seems that's very close to us is the band. Tom

[10876-106] Tyler | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: tell the class more about. That takes a while. And it's not quite confirmed. And you'll be getting that information shortly. I may have blown some surprises. Okay. Right now. Okay, but. But you're getting there. They're working around the clock to pull this off.
TEXT> And, and and I personally know that though I can run the thought. I've been in contact with Miss Berry a lot about it, so  I. But I'm just trying to voice the opinions of the, of the people who emailed me earlier to today doing the whole thing. And some of my fellow students were emailing me about their concerns. Says we still don't know what's going on with our last night.  For our local scholarships or anything. And I mean, the and there has been a few people and I'm personally on this level to where I just want the graduation to go, how it is, but I just feel like there might be a way for a graduate to be able to stand out and get a picture. So that way the family can get a good picture from the vehicle of the graduate being handed the diploma.
NEXT> Matt Upton: Mike, let me jump in here about the Franklin model so you understand how it works. The Franklin model is not you know, we have all the cars in the

[15444-1279] Frank Sprague | Chair, finance/budget subcommittee; Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2023-12-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: What doesn't sound like the principal did either.
TEXT> And the and after talking with Mr.. Mr. Pratt about what? The, the teacher's teacher to student load is at the high school. It seems very reasonable. What what they're proposing as far as people going to teaching four classes instead of three. Having been an administrator, I want my most qualified people not doing I want them doing what they're good at. I don't want them covering detentions. I don't want them doing bus watch. I want them I want them teaching. And so I  support that model.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I do too.

[17125-137] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair | 2026-02-07
PREV> Candace Crawford: town. For example, the average cost per student in New Hampshire is $21,545. 80% of that cost is $17,236. If just six students were to leave Claremont, taxpayers would pay over $100,000 to another town. There is no way to plan ahead for these costs.
TEXT> Additionally, if we did not have this article place, we could have an unknown number of students coming to our schools whether or not we had capacity for them. If we officially become an open enrollment school, students can still choose other schools, but the responsibility for paying for that cost remains with the parents as it is now.  Parental rights stay in place. We will also limit the number of students who can choose to come to Claremont, allowing us to better control,  manage. Excuse me over managing our resources, our budget and our spending for special education students, decision making and funding responsibility stays with the sending district. The school board recommends adoption of this article that limits the number of students going outside of the district to zero, and limits the number of students coming into the district at 10%. Because we have enough capacity to accommodate those students. Voting in favor of this article does not change the options available to parents that they have now.  It simply acts as a defensive move to limit the financial liability for which the district has no control, and no way to plan ahead for this unforeseen expense. Finally, the New Hampshire House has a bill on the table right now  that will be voted on in the next couple of weeks.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That makes all schools in New Hampshire subject to open enrollment, regardless of whether or not the district has an open enrollment policy. This would remove local control from Claremont,

[10558-123] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Mr. Morris: could teach history in there because that's what my BA is. Even though I have a master's degree and they allow all kinds of allowances for a professional like that. So it's initially it seems like a hurdle, but it can be overcome really quickly.
TEXT> And for for the folks at home who don't know about that Running Start program, it is  there's articulation agreement between our teachers and the community college. So kids kids get college credit in high school. And I believe at least in the composition class, I observed two of those, I think I think we have about 40 or 50 kids right now participating in that composition class to do it. So that's a substantial part of.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think it's all of the U.N. system, correct? Yes, yes. Yeah, yeah. So which is the the state colleges in the in the university and the community colleges.

[9631-220] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: So two additional donations.
TEXT> If I may. Quickly, we very pleased to inform the board that through the work of. Prescott Herzog, Claremont Savings Bank is donating $250 to after a request from Prescott for fuel up to play 60. Fuel up to play 60 of the nation's largest in school health and wellness program created by the National Dairy Council and National Football League.  Over 73,000 schools are involved with 38 million students. Who will reach through this program. And and thank you to Prescott Herzog and request that you accept this donation of $250 from the Claremont Savings Bank.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Question to accept.

[16602-260] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: So what is special Ed doing in this? How did they fit into this as far as consistency. And I think we've talked about consistency in writing IEPs. We haven't talked about it yet for educators. Never talked about it yet.
TEXT> So our parents or if I may interrupt or are you sending some of these trainings. So we want them up to date on instructional methods. We want them familiar with the with the programs, particularly at the elementary level. With that, they know what they're very familiar. We want them very familiar with what the teachers are instructing and how they're doing that, so that they're able to best help their students. Yeah.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, we'll see something on special ed. Yes.

[12180-53] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: For now.
TEXT> So I know that that we keep hearing how Newport has the one building.  I experienced it. And the question I have to to better utilize what we have. And this is kind of a  Richard question, possibly where we have the cares and Covid monies coming in. Would there be a way to create a controlled access point from the middle school to this building with that money? The reason I'm asking is, is because obviously one of the bigger concerns is children running through the parking lot to get over here because that's, you know, we're not attached. And if we did it with a controlled access point there limits the ability,  to have issue. So what I'm thinking is, is something like a bridge, like, you see it, airport terminals,  you know, going from building A to building B for the middle school where it's controlled access, because I, when I'm hearing one building is an excuse to where it's not as successful as it could be, well, that eliminates it. I mean, we're literally a stone's throw to the other building, except.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: When connect with the high school, so.

[10310-279] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report [105-111]; | 2019-04-03
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. And the last thing is, I got the permission slip for Sophia, the kids to take the, student survey at school. And I was wondering if that's different from last year because I don't remember any of my.
TEXT> Kids administer the student survey.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That's right, that's right.

[10768-59] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2020-03-04
PREV> Jason Benware: Not just.
TEXT> So for Steven. Last week, they hosted the eighth grade transition night. And at the SAS auditorium, they had a small but attentive crowd of parents and students who had great questions about what being a freshman at Stevens,  at Stevens would be like and what they spent. School counselors had previously met with students at CMS and went over the proposed program of studies. Outline of what Wise and freshmen should be focusing on and how the  about selected classes, future meetings, tours and orientations will be planned between now and the fall. Next week is a mayor Appreciation Week. Students will be viewing a short YouTube video and advisory on Monday, showing what ML Corp is all about.  Our Vista Corp  volunteer.  Kelly Britain will be sharing fast throughout the week and will provide information for students who are interested in the program tomorrow night. Mouch fifth is the NH a f paying for college night at 5 p.m. in the library.  All parents are open to learning about navigating the Fafsa, scholarship opportunities, and information on how to access and resources for paying for college. March brings about multiple important events for the Stuart Council and Department. All temperatures will be taped in the city on March 18th in the gym.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: I'm 25th. All 11th graders will be taking the SAT and the SAS gym. We have been working with the 11th graders and gentlemen prepared for the test throughout Khan

[16070-568] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: like, we want to really hone in on growth. We want to change the achievement mindset from, you know, a static grade to dynamic learning. So perhaps that's something we as a board can do as as one kind of recognition point. But I think.
TEXT> Like he is of service for teachers. Right. Certificates for like you were saying, he is of service for teachers that they're publicly. They can come if they want. You can give it to them here. So things like that I think goes a long way for students and staff.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And. As a board, we used to do that in. Fall Mountain. We'd give certificates to students that are student of the month or teams that had won a championship,

[15994-152] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITIONS straight into  | 2024-09-04
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: the. Assistant director, we have ours or she moves into the director, however it's going to be, at least there's been some information that has been gained and learned in the course of this year that we might be forging new ground. That is fabulous.
TEXT> Yeah. They didn't talk about other you know, you know, they just said it has not been done in New Hampshire as of now. But I also know from working in Massachusetts and  Vermont, the models are very different. They have tech centers. But the way kids come and go and everything, and they're there, they vary tremendously between New Hampshire and Vermont and Massachusetts. So looking at their models, they may have done, but it's Massachusetts. It's a regional model. You know, Vermont, it's you could have a private tech center versus one that's attached to a school district. It means so they so they vary.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So that would not be helpful.

[10638-89] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (ASR 'Tala Sullivan | 2019-12-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yep.
TEXT> Okay. So I did mine on a slide show. You all sent it? In your emails. I know that we had one little issue that fits with Mary.  Caroline told me to introduce myself every time.  My name is Tala Sullivan. I'm a senior at Stevens High School, and I'm a student. So at Bluff Elementary School on Tuesday, November 26th, Bluff Elementary held their annual seven feast. All of the bluff faculty and staff cooked and prepared, took a mash, potatoes, stuffing, rose vegetables, cranberry sauce, and gravy for the day's meal. The Bluff Gym was dedicated, was in an outbreak and holiday lights. Dessert was provided by parents who brought in stores of pumpkin and chocolate queen pies. On Tuesday, December 10th, the third, fourth and fifth grade will be attending a Doubt Gaels basketball game and on Thursday, December 12th. Bluff will hold its annual holiday concert from 6 to 7 p.m., which is the same day as the meeting  on Disney at elementary school.  On Tuesday, the 27th of November doesn't allow students participate in a variety of community gratitude activities such as twin ornaments, dog treats, tattoos, and wildlife friendly treated durations to be donated throughout our community.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: On Thursday, December 5th, they will be hosting a family literacy event as part of a Cliff Grant celebration. This event includes dinner presentation, such parent session with the speaker,

[12366-430] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: The school board. Thank you.
TEXT> And then  coming up, we have technically career day Thursday, May 12th. That'll be right here in the green here. I'd like you to come if you can make it. We have about 45 employers.  The high school is working with us to make it a half day so that the high school kids, juniors and seniors mostly is what we're looking at. In their advisory, there are required to write, create a resume with their instructors. We've sent out career. Our career counselor sent out information. This is how you write a resume. This is the template. And each one is to come with five printed copies. So they can go talk to the employers here. And so we got 45 employers come in. They're very excited. We keep getting more. And we're like we ran out of space kind of thing.  I mean they're so hungry for employees and this is for students that want to work for just summer or want to work looking for full time. And they're graduating.
NEXT> Unidentified: So which is a good thing.

[10842-282] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries some of the chair's floor  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: face time as well, because you can get just more, more done both in terms of proximity and access, than toggling this, you know, the schedule. So I'm not saying anything. It's this is across every sphere of business and the public life as well.
TEXT> I'm not saying anything that's probably not really registering with everyone at home as well, but it has been challenging. Education is a is a,  a people business in the relationships we have with students, with staff in that interaction is, is is what it's all about. So it's, it's it's been challenging. But I can't say enough about the teachers and staff members and their commitment to to teaching their students, following up with students, paraprofessionals following up as well. You know, assisting. It's just it's just been  really, great. So I also included this it's a little blurry to see right now, but this is a memorandum that we did for  the Google phones. For the Claremont teachers that we sent out in our,  I thought with that was that we would have more access. And again, we at that time when we instantly, overnight, practically went remote.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We wanted to make sure that we could push out, access both computer access, Chromebooks and everything to communities, because we're very aware of what is known as the digital

[16982-533] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: would be as truant officer, but when he's not doing that, if he needs to be pulled or he or she. Yes. If whoever is in that role is to be pulled in, to be that extra eyes and. Ears. In the hallway. He's Hawkins.
TEXT> Reading the job description. Under the frequency of data submission, there is a comprehensive attendance report going to the superintendent every month. And I believe getting kids into the school  is the paramount need to  in order for kids to understand that school is their job. Yes. Okay.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So, so for me to be a yes, I'd want that, fluidity built into the job description.

[16046-137] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: Even though they need it.
TEXT> Even though they need it. Correct.  The next one is English language learner aid. L l we get it's $816 a kid. We don't have a lot of kids that are actually on this, but.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We've seen it. We've seen a tremendous increase this year.

[10558-230] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Ben Nester: As far as I know? I mean, we're still getting 62% of what the state promises, but that still exists and we still apply for it.
TEXT> For those that don't know. Those are really those are kids that are in very expensive placements or receiving very expensive services.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, three and a half times the tuition rate. We can we can apply for special ed aid.

[9354-305] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: of students voting for their their like a class president or class captain or however you want, you want to put it, as well as teachers also putting their spin on it. I think it's I think it's a worthwhile discussion. Mike. And then Frank.
TEXT> Yeah, I, I think it's worthwhile looking at  the senior lunch, we had this, the graduating seniors, I sit with a group of students, and,  this came up, the one student had would have ranked higher in his class if he hadn't taken, you know, if he didn't take music. But he loved music, wanted to do music. So he took it because that's what he wanted to do. So I think maybe a different process, like, you know, like,  Brian said,  maybe even a  anonymous way that you can look at the student's resume per se and say, hey, this, you know, so you're not popularity contest, right? So they're not looking at the resume of their.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Class rank is frank.

[17046-141] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Matt Angell: grade, 105 for 10th, 91 for 11, 113 for 12, and 639 total. Now some considerations here in our classroom, there's some classroom space considerations. Specifically to get around that, you'd have to combine K and first grade. For one class. For one class class.
TEXT> And that still includes a space for preschool whatever model. So just a quick example. In that preschool we have to provide services for free school students. We could also provide a typical classroom preschool experience. Either way they would need a space. So that would still include a space no matter which model.
NEXT> Matt Angell: That would be as if chosen.

[11007-194] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to do all this stuff as well. We really have the capacity to, to to just crush this. So we're we're really excited about it. But we we haven't had a lot of time to be excited about it. So right now that's why I'm.
TEXT> Kind of more so interested in, you know, we've seen a lot of people say, why can't we just have webcams up in the camera? And then the teachers can be teaching the students at home and in person. That was kind of where I was going with my original question, why can't we do that?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, it's yeah, it's the infrastructure. You have to have that stuff. You have to have people have to have the capacity to do that. You also have to have

[9850-243] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (motion acknowledged 'Mr. Benoit' [26];  | 2018-06-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Jason and Caroline.
TEXT> Yeah, just a comment about that. My son Michael went to the program two years ago before he went to kindergarten, and at the time, it wasn't nearly as large as it is now. And, There was a ratio of typical I don't know, the,  the terminology, but anyhow, it was very good for my son. It was good for many reasons. One was that, he really learned how to share a classroom with a very diverse group of students. And I think that seeing him go into kindergarten this year and having to still share the classroom with the same students, he had a much better time of it than kids who had not had that before. So I think it benefits all students from all backgrounds. So I do believe it's a good program.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: In a perfect world, I believe, if I may, Frank, I believe the ratio is 5050. We are challenged to maintain that ratio because of the needs of of our

[12210-138] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Unidentified: Our next door neighbor has a nine year old girl that has got it three times, and she still has breathing problems. So it's not just a matter of death, correct?
TEXT> There is a there is morbidity involved.  But that parents have to decide whether what risk level they're going to have their children, except at this point. And there is really no evidence that cloth masks are providing any benefit at all. With Omnia,  there's there's nothing and you can go on, you can do anything. You can look for any study and you're not going to find it. You're going to find no randomized controlled trials that say that cloth masks reduce the incidence of transmission in school aged children. It doesn't even exist.
NEXT> Unidentified: The CDC said. Let's stop doing it.

[17566-564] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: to address that within that policy okay. Because that that will have an impact on students participation. And again under academic probation. The last sentence in the first paragraph says when grades are reviewed quarterly, again, there's no mention of CMS does not do cause.
TEXT> Under practice and game attendance,  it makes reference to choose to participate in athletics at Stevens High. And so we need to include CMS in there and  make sure that there are no further exclusions  to that. Next one was under the athletic department. Specific objectives. Number three says  to encourage a state required program for professional preparation of coaches sponsors. What does that mean? I have no idea what that means.  There's no legal.  I just I don't know what it is or what it what it means. That doesn't mean I'm all knowing. I just I don't know.  Under participation selection,  the first paragraph says  certain teams at certain levels have limitations.  So I'm going to just read you what I wrote verbatim. And again, I've  written a dead horse. I sit at my desk or my chair, my kids will tell you and I just read this stuff. So here's what I wrote. I'd like some clarity. It's so ambiguous. It'd be like saying some budget lines may make it more money than stated. And then what's worrying to me is at the end of that sentence, it says uses tradition to  play a part in selection.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: When you say tradition, use plays a part in the selection of athletes, that's to me that's a red flag, because that means if your name is correct, you're making

[17566-141] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board member (Capital Improvement Chair) - recognized 'Yes, bil | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: Did you read through that bill?
TEXT> No I didn't. In the past,  within a certain period of time.  Your procedures are going to take effect  and we have comp.  Then we can have confidence  when we're signing the bounces. In the past,  for example, the transportation for $500 a day for one homeless kid,  the  the doctor bill of $6,500. Others like that,  I signed them  knowing that they're not reasonable or believing that they're not reasonable. But I don't want to gum up the system and make things worse.  When do you think we can say with confidence we have the procedures in effect? And then  another thing, for example,  you and I spoke and I said, why am I vouching for fireworks? For  things that other people should be monitoring. And  for example, the elevator inspector and you said you're going to get to the point where the people responsible for those  purchase orders will be signing them first  before it comes into the voucher.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So some of that is happening.

[17125-138] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair | 2026-02-07
PREV> Candace Crawford: limit the financial liability for which the district has no control, and no way to plan ahead for this unforeseen expense. Finally, the New Hampshire House has a bill on the table right now that will be voted on in the next couple of weeks.
TEXT> That makes all schools in New Hampshire subject to open enrollment, regardless of whether or not the district has an open enrollment policy. This would remove local control from Claremont, but it would require us to pay the cost of sending a student to another district and force us to allow any number of students into our schools, regardless of capacity. Please speak with your state representative about this important bill. Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you, Mrs. Crawford. Is there anyone wishing to speak against this article? He's asking for clarification. You need to come to the podium to ask.

[9850-262] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Doctor Goodwin' [7]; gives superinte | 2018-06-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> If if I may, Frank, to talk about what Michelle said. Michelle was the pivotal vote. It was a very difficult evening because the prior program had a rich history of 20 plus years, and it had deep, deep roots in our community that many children and adults now benefited from that program. So, that change was difficult. It was strategic. It did have resistance, which we respected.  But I regret the angst that it caused. I'm pleased, however, with the outcome. Thank you. Frank.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you.

[10605-65] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We'd love to have your input as we as we make the plan that will drive the instruction here at Claremont for the next 3 to 5 years. So, shameless plug for those out there who want to who want to join, join, join us.
TEXT> This is the warrant that I just read, okay? And we don't don't need to read it again.  I want to talk about and I'm going to get into the specificity of that in one minute. There were three programs that we're looking to to expand. One, we're going to expand upon the other two we don't have. All right. So the the one that's been very successful and I'll talk about that,  is a program that we had that presented, I believe, two meetings ago, the, the pride program at Maple, where we're servicing kids in district least restrictive environment in their own  neighborhoods, who we might have to have go far away, you know, up to an hour drive to another program with a lot of added costs that  detract from from the, that take away resources from, from the budget. So and I don't know, for those of you at home. At home who and I'm just saying this because the last four years before I came here, I worked as the director of the largest special ed collaborative in  New England  and have had a lot of success recently building programs just like this, very cost effective programs.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And in talking in my transition in here, talking with Mr. Nestor last spring, as he was working on his program and the ideas that he has and how it

[17095-639] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: All in favor? I opposed, no abstentions. Articles moved.
TEXT> All right. Article eight, which is now article seven, adopting open enrollment to see if the school district will vote to designate all of its schools as open enrollment schools pursuant to RSA 194-D  to allow nonresident students from outside of the school district to attend schools in the school district, and in the amount not exceeding 10% of each school's enrollment, and to limit the percentage of students residing in the school district who may attend open enrollment schools located outside the school district to 0%. The school board recommends this article.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: A second.

[17125-216] James O'Shaughnessy | District legal counsel, Drummond Woodsum | 2026-02-07
PREV> James O'Shaughnessy: September of 2025. I have been asked to advise me on this, and I have consistently stated that the way that it was drafted isn't helpful and doesn't make a lot of sense for most communities, because it doesn't leave you a lot of flexibility.
TEXT> For clarity with how you're supposed to petition for a budget cap.  The way you've proposed is you're proposing that it be at a 25, 26 fiscal year per pupil cost.  My understanding is that the legislature wanted you to put a dollar amount there. That's the language of the statute. So the best I can do is say, if you adopt this, I can't provide certainty. But what will happen in the future? Well,  whether this will be valid or not, it may be I don't want to create an unnecessary amount of  uncertainty, but it may not be better. And you may end up having to resolve this adoption  through litigation with the Dre. I'm not quite sure.  Maybe it just goes into effect that question, but I want to raise that legal issue to your attention and let you folks resolve it. Happy to answer any questions.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Take their questions, I don't know. All right. Anyone have you speak up high are the minor. Anyone who she is speak to this. We got to gather if.

[15638-187] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: During. Student. Break.
TEXT> During student break. She  did a lot of the lot of the work there.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Well.

[10506-135] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Carolyn Towle: I just had a. Discussion about how we could improve the dual enrollment program, or the percentage of high school students that are taking advantage of that.
TEXT> I did I did miss one. That was that was one that was the college and career readiness one. So that that was a exactly we spoke about that looking at we do have, I think, 2 or 3 options where you can take advantage of that with the community college and with  some of the online offerings in a few more that we're looking at,  in the that's, that's definitely on our radar. In addition to that, in, it is important that kids, all kids have  access to robust college options. But we also want to and we've had a lot of  unbelievable support through the community events that we've had recently of people reaching out and looking to provide a mentorship for students in Pat, you know, can speak to some of those efforts that they have at the high school, particularly with the, the gear up program in the middle and high school and, and creating networks of of mentorship opportunities for students who might not be a traditional college student or might just be interested in one field. And we have incredibly successful people in the community with their own businesses and all kinds of things that we're looking to continue. Not that we don't already have a lot of volunteers and a lot of placements, but we're looking to expand that for every, every possibility for students.
NEXT> Unidentified: So yeah.

[23815-220] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-08-19
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: Well, why?
TEXT> Every kid gets it. We don't turn any kid away for food.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Well, have them come to school with their parents and we'll give the parents a meal to.

[12204-96] Unidentified | Unidentified - tech center teacher answering questions on CTE director | 2022-02-09
PREV> Unidentified: beta programs. A kind of a half program going on. Beta programs are pretty full. Covid did hit us pretty hard because the students having to take requirements that they missed because they were online, and some students did the work and naturally, some didn't.
TEXT> And the next year they had to go back and get those classes again. So that is the trends that I've seen and that I've actually experienced as a teacher. I'm losing students that were interested. So I did want to clear up that question about numbers, so I didn't have enough information to that when I answered that the first time.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Thank you. Mr.. Close. Yes. Mr..

[10374-74] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-05-15
PREV> Alicia Webster: plan on taking action on certain things in the school next year. But also as a school, we're going to be working on communication and, organization. So I hope that it's not only student council that broadens that, but also the whole school itself. Yeah.
TEXT> So when I was down in Concord, last Tuesday,  Berlin brought, I don't know how many kids  a lot. The whole upper gallery of the Legislative Hall was full of  Berlin people and kids. So I I'm going to echo what what? I heard Carolyn say that, people will listen to us, but they really listen to kids. So it may be when we'll keep maybe keep miss Chesney or someone posted of as to when more hearings are going to take place, but it would be great to have some of you kids join us.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Yeah.

[17017-365] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: If you don't want to get a zero, you can.
TEXT> Do that. But I mean the students again is measuring their progress over time and things to so if there's alts, you know, tests and things like that for students who are maybe severely impacted and things. But again, it's meeting that score. You know, it's leveling up. It's teaching the students how to approach. The assessment is the bigger part of it. And so it's not going away.  And, you know, and I think that's the biggest part of it is just the sooner we start them younger and understanding, you know, the approaches to it, it's showing the scores and showing the improvement.  So adding on to it. Maple Avenue is also in good standing and unity is in good standing as well. And so it's really affecting a lot of our schools positively thanks to. So last one, Stevens.  So there are targeted support and improvement plan there working on specifically students with disabilities. And so. Doctor Harrington, would you like to address any?
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Sure. We had a developed a plan. At the end of last year, worked with, you know, there was a couple informational sessions with people at the Department of Education,

[9442-78] Karen Doucet | Owner, Old Courthouse restaurant, Newport; ELO mentor (identified by D | 2017-11-15
PREV> Christine Downing: Okay.
TEXT> So this was my first experience doing an L with a student. I had been approached before for Newport and it really was the program had just started, so  I declined. And then,  Christine approached me again and I was excited to do it.  It was a wonderful experience for me. I would do it again in a heartbeat.  There were a lot of things that Claire and I discussed, and she would go back and thoroughly research it and come back with an answer. The following week.  We talked a lot about chemicals and baking.  We made mistakes together. We had failures. We had great successes. Her project at the end, there were quite a few people from the Claremont district, which I was really happy to see, came and saw her final presentation  and she had made,  I think it was six different items. She had baked and worked really hard on it, but it was a wonderful program.  And I'd be happy to do it again.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: We.

[11106-170] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Rebecca's got her hands up. I'm not sure who else, but. Heather is right.
TEXT> Just a couple of things. The synchronous learning my tea. Can you just tell me specifically what the hangup is? Is it is the hang up? The HIPAA is the hang up. Seeing other students in the classroom, and and not being not supposed to be seeing the other students. Like specifically what is the hang up? Do we not have enough money to be able to do it? That's my first question. And, and and I ask that because we've been talking about this since March of last year. And I feel like the technology pieces on us as school board members and as a school district, I feel like that really should have been figured out  by now. That's the first part. I would like something specific. The second thing is,  after you share that, I just have a question about special ed and what's going on with that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Okay. All right. So I'm clarifying. So you're talking about why aren't we synchronous all the way through for everyone who is so for elementary, middle and high school? Or

[14875-217] Ann Fine | Public commenter, Ward 2, 101 Ledgewood Road — retired educator, 26 ye | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> My name is an fine. I live at 101 Ledge Wood Road. I'm in Ward two. I am an educator. I have taught elementary school. High school. I was an assistant professor at Landmark College for 26 years, and I taught dual enrollment for five years. I am a grandparent. I'm also a retiree living on a fixed income, and two often cuts are made in my name. I feel that as a community, the students, the teachers, the administrators are being pushed into a seismic shift without time to do so. There's been a lot of talk about preparing students tonight. While there is value in preparing students, the reality is that growth of the brain and the body is developmental. It happens over time. You cannot make the brain and body prepared to do what it is not physically capable of doing. If we want to keep teachers going, going for minimum standards, especially New Hampshire, minimum standards is not the way to go. Restore the cuts and explore educational options in a thoughtful and carefully planned manner. Strength of education is the strength of the community. I'm opposed to the cuts and I'm opposed to the timing of this seismic shift.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you, thank you.

[16011-45] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (appointment formally announced at th | 2024-09-12
PREV> Chris Pratt: to the board. So you know, exactly what it's all about is that, it's a new communication platform designed to better, school parent and community interactions. The platform integrates announcements, messaging, notifications into one streamlined system office real time updates, secure messaging, and easy access.
TEXT> But it also helps with a lot of families who make English might be the second language, because now you have to request it. Well,  now when they go in, they can say, this is what I want the primary language to be, so we don't have to go and translate it. It'll automatically provide them in the language they want. But it also is that it's set up almost like a social media site, which everyone knows how pretty much know how to use social media. And so you have you have different  I guess it's kind of like departments set up. So instance, once we're up and going, you have a teacher has access to all her kids, you know, website. It's it's an in-house, you know, platform that's used so they can talk to different groups. We can put on their  forms that parents need to fill out. For instance, I put I sent out to all parents and I sent a reminder out today about the the lunch programs. You're getting that stuff. And I'm able to see how many people looked at it and how many people responded.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So if the people that we feel really need it haven't responded yet, I can just push it out to those people again. So I pushed that out again today

[11262-328] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (chair: 'Thank you. Melissa'; sup | 2021-01-13
PREV> Melissa Lewis: our remote students. We're trying to time that at a time. There will be less, confusion and due to schedule changes. And by that I mean we were trying to hold off until February 2nd, when we had students exiting from remote to in-person learning.
TEXT> So just due to that, we were going to have to make some schedule changes for our remote students because we need to regroup kids. And so we didn't want to cause two rounds of schedule changes for our remote students. So that's actually ongoing work right now. And  at Disney, remote families will be receiving a letter from me tomorrow that just signals we're going to make that change. And then, within the following week, teachers will get new schedules, remote teachers will get new schedules out to our remote families that include synchronous learning in the areas of reading, writing, math, science, and social studies because the benefits of that really do outweigh the inconvenience of the schedule change. So please know that is forthcoming.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Melissa. Prescott. Did you have something to say?

[16951-386] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's a it's a really it's a frustrating concept. There's a difference between the tax rate and the budget because and yes. And so I.
TEXT> I just I'm speaking out of turn. I think this is a really important concept for the public to understand, that this is not a new assessment. This is the budget that was approved last March. The voters have voted on that. The tax rate is set based on that budget that was passed in March when the budget is set. As as Mr. Angel said, there are there's the amount that was voted and then there are some provisions for anticipated revenues. In the past, some of those anticipated revenues were either artificially set higher than real. Therefore, the money raised through taxes in the past wasn't enough to cover the budget that was voted on in the in the previous March. And that's what some of our some of the reason that we're so short on money. And so when the when the tax rate comes out in December, it's the budget that's already been voted on with a realistic expectation  of the revenues. Yes.  And we've talked about this before. An example  of an inflated revenue in the past was just one item, which was, a revenue from tuition of students coming in.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And in the past, the amount that this district received in, revenue from students coming in was around 250,000 per 200, 250,000 per year. Last year, the amount that was

[10993-241] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member voice, possibly Rebecca Zullo (not establi | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Was okay. Directly connected. Yeah. So two two of two of them. But but today I know that we had three resignations. I haven't had a chance to follow up on them yet.
TEXT> Can I just I would feel more comfortable if we did it at the end of the first quarter, because I know I've worked with the high school kids and I know the anxiety level with just starting this. And then they got into the groove and now and they knew it was the potential was going to be after the,  you know, after that. And now we're saying, no, we're going to change it right now.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Frank. Go ahead.

[17092-200] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: Not 3 to 4 students. It was meaning.
TEXT> There's a few that there were no significant, you know, eight students fewer in one room or something.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Got it. And with the aligned models in K through two, what I had kind of figured out was it was going to be roughly 17 students per class and

[15028-97] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: see a counselor. So I want to see a counselor. This is what is. And it goes to the counselors. That number only reflects those that are asking to be seen. That is not counselors making appointments about scheduling, about conflict resolution, about lunch groups.
TEXT> That's students themselves advocating 125 days of school for  595 asks to see a counselor failing grades at this point, which a failing grade represents an RI and an F at this time last year, we had 1076  this year, and this year at this point 958. Again, just taking a look at  what's happening academically. Yellow team referrals, as I mentioned, what they were, we've had about 25 this year  out of the 351 students. Red team referrals, five  lunch bunch, this is an awesome counselor social worker thing.  Over 125 days. They have seen 200 students in their lunch groups. And those lunch groups are targeting an SL program having to do with healthy decision making, body imaging,  healthy relationships and things like that that are being covered. So and I'll get a little more into the SL program highlights. At our advisory program, this was born out of the Sandy hook massacre, and also with some great, advice and information from Nico Oakes, a former council has helped to build our advisory program.  It is. And I'll get into a little bit more about what it is, but it covers an SL program. So I know we talked about and,  Mr. Horsley brought up like, what's it, you know, what can we do?
NEXT> Frank Romeo: And these are things that we're doing that we would love to continue to do. So that's kind of what it covers. Here's what some of the programs. And we've

[17029-528] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Heather Whitney: I think it's very sensible.
TEXT> Approach for me to do that. I will say,  you know, even the  7 to 12. And I'm not saying advocating one way or another. Right now we do have some middle schoolers that were on, especially eighth graders who were doing like JV sports because middle school sports look different. And so there was some ability to kind of move some students up for sports. And, you know, I envision, you know, depending on whatever it is, band course, there could be some flexibility to. So I want that people to know that those are discussions to look at in this model too. So it's not only just regular academics, it impacts all of our programing.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right. Right.

[9315-622] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Superintendent: 'if I may, Chris, y | 2017-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> I just that I can just see this get into that really because we're all having the conversation. If we have it, the real world is going to have it too. So that way you have what Brian's talking about. It's pretty well defined. It's got involved students or the district. It doesn't. Well, you're done then.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Why don't.

[8407-277] Susan Taylor | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced 'Felicia Harvey  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Felicia Harvey: Yes. Our student council is there for us as well. Yeah.
TEXT> So they get quite a few. Yes. Because student council  like.
NEXT> Unidentified: The advisor.

[11825-199] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Ben Nester: nature, the law pushes teams to refer kids to special ed more often than they would have perhaps previously. So that's been scuttlebutt, you know, in my, you know, groups. So I'd like to be a part of that. You know, however that looks so.
TEXT> Well. The courts have always refer kids to special ed. They do. Doesn't mean you have to find them eligible.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah. That's right. So.

[10942-356] Matt Upton | District attorney, Drummond Woodsum | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah.
TEXT> So even if the where the waiver were permissible,  it's only enforceable to the extent of the person who signs it. And so it would not be enforceable against a family member who contracted Covid. It would not be, enforceable as to a member of the public that contracted Covid, other than the person who signs the release or the waiver itself. But beyond that, I think there's a problem with requiring students and parents to sign a waiver in order to access an education, which  Claremont knows is a constitutionally protected right. And so I don't think you could you could ask for a waiver for core education classes. Now, there is  maybe an argument that a waiver could be utilized. And, programing that's optional, in other words, not required under the Department of Education's administrative rules and maybe, and maybe sports programs, but not your core academic.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So I. Think. So I think it's interesting. That we. Heather simply spoke about probabilities and based on the numbers and how an influx, somebody would have to come into

[17116-124] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter, Ward 2 — cites the RSA 189 master-teacher provision  | 2026-01-20
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: a disparity that we're selling that the students are not growing at the same rate as they're typically developing peers. And so that's why we need to make sure we are providing the staff to show growth across those subgroups of students. With that help.
TEXT> That helps. I think I'm going to have to read more. I wanted to again,  question about the Warren article that's still up there. The longer sat there, the easier it was for me. Look at it.  Can we make amendments, such as? Because you said it's based on the 2526 fiscal school year, so could we amend it to 2425? So our cost per pupil is higher because we weren't in a deficit crisis? No teachers in our school situation.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Before jump. Jim jumps in. My guess is probably not because you can't change the language you. If there was like a dollar amount, you could change the dollar amount.

[17092-223] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Matt Angell: Okay, so when I built the model, I was primarily focused on, on elementary.
TEXT> I threw a flag on that play saying, I appreciate that. And, you know, I want to also, though, I don't want to lose sight of whether it's upper elementary or middle school that there's still need for that, you know, age level too. And so, and not to dismiss the high school and any intervention needs there as well. But there's this a little bit different just because of the high school model looks very different. But to make sure that there's still many students in that middle section, whatever. It's 3 or 4, whatever that middle grade section, that would still need intervention. So I wouldn't put all of my eggs in the elementary basket. I would also make sure that the middle school and speaking as a former principal there, we could certainly advocate.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: For their. And one last point that I'm trying to remember what it was, and I think I just lost it.

[7313-131] Bob | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Bob' [200], [673], [747], | 2015-01-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: I'll have to defer on that one. I don't know the actual number of children. Can you speak to that at the top of your head? To see how many? Okay, I can bring that back to you next time.
TEXT> Let's go back to us up a little bit. How many? What's the total number of students you got at the facility?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Currently there's 26.

[11886-64] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: going to be at the table with them from the start instead of reacting to situations which we're excited about, as are they are. So this is the middle school schedule as an example. I'm not going to get into the I promise I won't.
TEXT> The next slide, the burden of all of this is you have to look at what you graduate from, right? The whole 12 year or longer run,  talking about other other programs and students who may exceed that, that  that level of time and special ed programs and other types of mentorship types of things. But this is the Stevens High School school  profile. Every school profile has that. There are courses, there are requirements. There are ways in which you can graduate. Everything that you can take. The deal is that you have to look at the capacity of that. You have to match that up with your research  and everything that you can do to get kids all the way through. And we will talk about this,  in detail when we have those form specific to this, when we have the data and we put that team together to I just wanted to talk about both of them. And I'll fly through these slides. All right. For I promise. Even though I love this topic. Next next slide.  There were Covid hours. Same thing we have many places are still doing this is what we had last year. How we set it up. Next slide the bell schedule from before Covid and Stevens next slide is a master schedule  that was just worked with the scheduling committee at the middle school.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is their whole proposal. If we go through a little bit rapidly. Mr. Small, I won't bore you with this, but it's actually, they did such a great they

[15471-67] Frank Sprague | Chair, Claremont School Board Finance Committee; Vice Chair, Claremont | 2023-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: When when it was the reverse was argued when we accepted it.
TEXT> Well,  I mean, I think I'm not sure how expecting kids to take more courses at the same time,  reduces dropout rate. I'm not sure how that works.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I think just the rule of thumb is that you build community with the same teacher over the course of a year. I have more opportunities in smaller doses, and

[10942-23] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: committee that was tasked with that, we broke into seven subcommittees tasked to come up with recommendations for the administrative team to come forward to bring two the board and and this is these are all the folks that were that rationale that we use.
TEXT> We follow the CDC guidelines, particularly Doctor Chan.  The state  of a a struggle with that, especially with the mask of just,  talking about the spread of the disease, the New Hampshire guidelines, the federal guidelines,  the reopening guides that we have. And now reopening guides are coming out from subcategories from the arts, from  athletics, and from from some others,  as well as a 70 folks. Okay. Six of I think there were six students.  A dozen or so parents, teachers, administrators, community members  from all of the, all all of the various schools in from unity as well. Okay.  All of the municipal services, the regional,  Commissioner Ferland,  folks at Dartmouth, Dartmouth-Hitchcock. It was a really great collaboration. And in some of the other big drivers that were going to go into depth tonight with that, we did it the other day. Are the, the limitations of size in the public, in the, in the classrooms and the limitations of size of the busses. When you're looking at CDC  in the New Hampshire guidance on those in the impacts of those things. Okay. And obviously Hopkins and although I all right. So the the these are in the folder already but I'll also show you the page which is even a better guide where all these documents are from.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is our front front page right now. If you click on either of these links, if you're viewing at home, if you go right to the board meeting. All

[16982-296] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Unidentified: Is this the question?
TEXT> Thank you. I need to hold on to thank you guys for having me tonight. Just real quick talking about the program studies. Program studies is more than a document. It is something that kind of guides, guides the lives of our cardinals for four years with their parents. And before I just kind of go through all the changes and direction that we've gone through, I just want to put a quick shout out for a couple incredible people that have done a lot of work. Miss me? Ryan's and Mr. Wilson back there have worked unbelievably hard on this. Also, the cover was designed and put together by Miss Hilary Walsh. And really kind of captivates life at Stevens. This is been a complete and total rewrite of that document. The guiding, you know, force, if you will, on this is really just a clean, professional, professional, helpful document for students and parents. Right. To make them to give them the ability to guide their decision making while they're at Stevens High School.  One of the things that we introduced here, and we will elaborate on I also quick and because I'm nervous.  Another shout out for Miss Harrington, who worked really hard on the her side of this. And we'll get into that because I've got sticky notes.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: One of the things, that we introduced was career clusters. Okay. And what this does is it aligns the coursework to careers that are out in the, in the real

[8679-384] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination - only board | 2016-10-05
PREV> Willow Maureen: Well, logically, I guess if they're using condoms more, the STDs would decrease.
TEXT> So that brings me back to how  how would a child B or a teen be able to access if their parent didn't want them to.
NEXT> Willow Maureen: They couldn't go to the school they would have to.

[10605-92] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-11-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Thank you.
TEXT> And I did miss one thing in my report. I'm out of 21st. This is a why about superhero. More from a while ahead.  But the New Hampshire student voice orginisation as having their first state conference at the high school  on a Saturday from 8 to 2.  That's March 21st. More information to come.  I'm planning it, and it's really tough.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: All right. Thank you.

[17046-120] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: And that's compared to our current enrollment of.
TEXT> Model is about 1400 students. And then for the vocational center, where it's going to still exist as a high school, as part of the high school for both models. And we're restoring funding, including the machine tool class. And and we don't we expected the tech sector to continue as it is or has been in the years past.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So let me say 3 or 4 school models. The tech centers still always just exempt from that discussion.

[10558-268] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> Okay, we're moving down to acceptance of donation for CMS students from the Greater Mountain Chamber of Commerce. So this.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Is, a check from the Chamber of Commerce for $500 donated towards the purchase of binders for the middle school. So if you're looking for.

[17373-465] Loren Howard | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair; ad hoc communications  | 2026-05-20
PREV> Don Lavalette: If I understand this correctly, the student that. I guess my implication the parents get to determine whether or not they take this.
TEXT> Are capable of and wishes to do so, I think is a little bit, for on purpose. But yeah, I think it's giving  students and parents the opportunity to, to do that if they wish. I don't think that inhibits any teacher from encouraging them to do so, but I think requiring them to do so is just something I'm not sure that's something we can legally do.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Well, I think this is a tremendous improvement because it puts a burden on the student, and the student feels like he should. He's capable of taking on the extra

[12115-292] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: And that's where the 23 credit comes in. And Mr. Tempesta and David, you could help. But the 23 credit is the standard diploma, which is above and beyond the 20 credit. And then we have the 27, which is an accelerator.
TEXT> But once again, what I'm getting at is, is if we're sending students out of our district, they need to be educated now on electives, on the basics, so that what I'm getting at is, is that you can have six electives here. I don't care about your credit count above and beyond that because you're an accelerated student. Typically what I'm getting at is that our basic and what our requirements to meet statewide instead of allow in having in our program of studies, I would say three electives. And then you have to do more history, more  math, more something somewhere. Because that's the problem is, is that we're not sending enough students out with basic knowledge. Our test results will keep reflecting this. So how do you fix the problem?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So what I kind of I think I what I hear you saying is that you would like our district to actually set our own standards for what those 20

[16477-470] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> You saw the purpose, goals and meaning cadence. Oh, I have one more thing, I apologize. We met this afternoon, and we went through the number of policies that our priority policies and then have offshoots of related policies. So we have felt that we need help. So the section D, which is fiscal management, we are referring to the finance Committee, the BA, working with the superintendent to. Upgrade the prioritize. There were only three of them, Miss Crawford and then support services. Mr. Madden has graciously agreed to go through that. And you have the committee. Subcommittee to help you with that.  Personnel. Personnel? I'm requesting the HR department review those. There are four priority policies that may have offshoots that require more. And sections I and J are instruction and students. And I'm asking the administration to work with building administrators and whomever is appropriate to bring those recommendations to the subcommittee. And then we will review them and bring them to the board. And Mr. Howard is going to update our tracker. Great revisions dates.
NEXT> Patrick O'Hearn: Awesome.

[8407-171] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (introduced with Dan Cherry and Mike Lansi | 2016-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: different comprehension levels, that determines whether, for example, a child moves on. So we for a for us to say that a child is a level X reader, they have to be accurate, they need to be fluent, and they need to have solid comprehension.
TEXT> Teachers also use a wide variety of assessments, such as just what we call a running record, where they take a piece of text and they just listen to that child read. Right. So there's lots of information that can be gained. The program assessments through reading wonders are just one form of a reading assessment that we use, and many of them the weekly ones, at least for Disney and Mr. Cherry can speak to Maple. They're really being used as practice, because the rigor of what we're asking children to do has drastically increased, which is great, but we know they need multiple exposures to practice that in order to reach that level.
NEXT> Unidentified: Of rigor.

[16872-321] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay.
TEXT> I want the executive summary. Yes. One of the problems that we all recognize is  we don't hold ourselves the high standards, the administration, the board, the. Except Mr. Angel, except Mr. Angel. We hold him to very high standards. Parents and students. It's a new way of doing business. Now we got to pick everything up. Okay. I, I've used executive summaries. At other. Other organizations. I do have a sample.  I'm going to propose it to, We have a superintendent.
NEXT> Unidentified: He's our hero.

[16049-71] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: That was the average. Yeah. So that was okay.
TEXT> So week two that we're only 41. And by week five only eight students is is the reason for the diminishing number. Because they pass competencies.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: Because once you pass summer school you don't have to come back.

[9073-154] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, speaking during discussion and citizens comments ( | 2017-05-03
PREV> Charlene Lovett: with the Public health, advisory council for the entire county. This morning. I gave out these, these are one way to communicate to your representatives. If you would like, you can sign them and say you're supporting SB 247. If you live or work in.
TEXT> Claremont. And I will handle over them to our representatives tonight in preparation for this vote, I think it's important that they see that we are really behind this, even though chances are good you never know what's going to happen. You could pull it off and it'd be your free for it. So if I'm happy to collect it after I speak, So I  have sent it out. The whole county delegation is aware of  of the county Public Health Advisory councils position on this issue led poison, the screening and prevention of childhood lead poisoning. We met this morning. I've sent a letter out to the full council. I am now talking to you because I didn't have a chance to send an email to you  this afternoon. So basically,  we want to show that as a community, we are behind this. We are leading the state with regard to universal screening  of children 0 to 6 and  putting together a community wide plan to how to best remediate and remove lead  based paint from homes. So,  there will be more on that June 22nd when we meet again. But this is what's happening tomorrow. So I wanted you to be aware of that. And I think that's all I was going to talk about. I'm just thrilled about this Nest accreditation,  and I can't say enough about it. Yes.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Mayor, since you're here. I was wondering about, have Governor Sununu. I read in the newspaper that he's his office has mentioned at some point in the future, I imagine,

[15058-175] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; retired school administrator | 2023-05-03
PREV> Hope Damon: So I don't know the numbers, but I think those numbers. From. The lead mitigation grant.
TEXT> I know we used to do screenings at the back to school. We did screenings on  since we mentioned it, I'm wondering if there were any stats. Yeah.  I noticed on page nine that it says Audit District 37 kids. And I think you said one was elementary. And Frank Romeo told us two. So does that mean there's 35 high school kids or.. See here?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Oh. I'm sorry. Here we go. Gotcha. Can you say that again, Frank? Sorry.

[16246-265] Candace Crawford | School Board Member (Finance Committee; presides over this session) | 2025-01-06
PREV> Mary Henry: That is correct.
TEXT> That no money for preschool. And right now that involves 23 kids at risk kids, plus.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: 23 identified, 20 typical whatever.

[9711-702] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2018-04-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Different approaches. We may want to change that. So it's a little more inclusive. Michelle go ahead.
TEXT> Okay. So the whole conversation about why I asked us to be brought to this part was  that if a child, if a parent opted out of this, that a child would have, they would have to pay for a course.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: All the options we refer to so far below, that's all free.

[16215-606] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right.
TEXT> So we're 100% sure that the model students who are attending the program at no cost to the parent, are not receiving an additional benefit.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Are not benefiting from the.

[15444-156] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; finance/budget subcommittee member | 2023-12-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: block is your block level two. And those are ones that completed level one. And then in the afternoon we teach four quarter classes, and there are 20 about 20 students in each of those quarter classes. So about 80 students in the afternoon okay.
TEXT> So the 80 students is meeting the.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: From the high school. Yes.

[14937-190] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; on the ballot for a three-year seat at the 3/14/2 | 2023-03-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I've reached out, Frank, directly to the requesting a meeting and we've emailed back and forth. We haven't met yet. And then I know that.
TEXT> According to what this says, they've been at the high school and identified 87 kids that are suitable for their program. That's what it says.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So our population is going to go down by about a quarter.

[12399-210] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair asked 'Richard' to  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So I know when I worked at Newport, there were kids taking backpacks of food home on Friday nights, Friday afternoons. So that may be. But they were using fresh picks, so I don't know. Yeah. And again we're looking at fresh picks  also. But if there's a program where we can be reimbursed, the next question may come up. Is there a conversation we have in the future of are we going to be providing either some component of free meals or weekend meals based on need? And all of this, of course, is we don't know the need and we can't ask the need. So it's trying to to meet a demand that we know is there but can't quite.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So Mike. Mike and I were on the board. Maybe Steve too. I think back when. We got quite a. Bit. Of press over the money that was not being

[9171-16] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; answers roll as 'Brian Rath' [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Almost two percentage points.
TEXT> All right.  I guess we'll move on to citizens comments for citizens. Comments. We'll close citizens comments and move to discussion items,  which is our academic achievement goals. Student measured growth in reading, math and writing.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: This is the the end of our first 2016 2017 year where we have been, focusing on, on on academic achievement, meaning the growth that our students demonstrate in reading

[11825-175] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Nicole Gordon: meeting. We want to do whatever it takes to help students attain that completion and graduation. And I have, faith that with these positions, we're going to be able to provide better services to more students, and we'll be able to move toward that goal.
TEXT> And in discussions with, with. The high school administration looking at what we had for other staffing, what we had for attrition. But we have with the conversion in the aggregate,  this is more cost effective than what we had, just straight up because I, I know where we'll be at budget season. And I appreciate your, your questions and concerns.  But basically what we, we did was we folded all of that in many of those already existed the layout as well with other duties with other administrators using the entry downstairs in the entry upstairs. Having more folks out to corral high school students. I,  I'm saying this as a long time high school principal. And and being more reactive in the moment and turning them around so they're not scooting out the door and that they can't necessarily know where everyone is all the time and all these other things that,  I think it's  in the perfect timing as well, with the new discipline  laws coming out that everyone is trying to figure out about trying to keep kids in school and not have long term suspensions and all of those components that you  mentioned.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You know, we have the Arc, we have all of these things, where we need to connect them or get kids in there accessing them more and, and turning them

[8568-192] Carolyn Towle | Claremont City Councilor (ASR 'Councilor Tol', 'Miss Toll') | 2016-08-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Sort of like a life well lived that one of the papers does, you.
TEXT> Know, all of them. I'd like them all to be on board. Maybe the radio stations that we work well with, they get on board. They  they have a time for a student that has.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Done work with learning disabled and just talking about what they've learned and, and what's great about that student that they're helping or I mean, the gamut is wide open

[9098-3] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: So we have our agenda. Do we have any amendments? Anything we need to add? If I could, I'd like to.
TEXT> Before you or two. Letters of resignation. So I'd like to add resignations to the agenda. And  I would ask your permission to make some slight adjustments in the order of tonight. Robotics are our accomplished  technology. Students are here to make a presentation, but following a rogue robotics presentation, I'd like to jump down to a review of adverse childhood experiences. And we are. We're fortunate to  have this discussion tonight. We also have Melanie Williams, who is a clinical supervisor at Telsey, to share some of some important information regarding childhood trauma.  And then following that. So it's rogue robotics adverse childhood experiences. Then we can go to special education will be a brief presentation by Chris Bezos. And then I recommend we go into nonpublic and going into nonpublic. Fits with the prior presentations. And then we would come back and go right into instructional technology.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I move, we accept the agenda as amended.

[12399-84] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (onset 'And my crystal ball' of | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: So you talked about training and then getting this into the junior high or the middle school. So I mean, the training happened over the summer. And then what's a reasonable time frame in your crystal ball to then start moving to the middle school.
TEXT> And my crystal ball. Of experience, it takes about,  about about I'd say about anywhere from three days to a week of two hours each session to train the student panels, and it takes about probably two days to train staff in the process. I'm hoping to  try to gather interest for students next week to see who would be interested in being a student panel. Often the optimal approach would be try to get some training in at the end of the summertime when things start settling down and see if we can get kids trained. I've already reached out to,  my colleague in Brattleboro, and,  he's still running the program there that we started in 2000. Four. And he's more than happy to come and train teachers and work with me to train students and everything else, and we could get it done over summertime. If not, we can get the student panel trained sometime during the beginning of the school year and hopefully get things underway before Christmas.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: And how long before that trickles into the middle school?

[10704-2] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: no time did we have any linkages between that, that the present budget was contingent upon that, or in any way related to that, but it was also a way in which we wanted to speak about what we what we could do for students.
TEXT> So we also have and I I'm excited to see so many faces here tonight as as Chairman Sprague said,  we have the opportunity and we're really looking for this in terms of outreach. We said this staff today, we said we met with the transportation  department today, a lot of bus drivers and Pamela at the at the shed, talking about some of the issues that we see are not yet resolved and they're substantial. So transportation, a few things that were brought up by people, the configuration.  And then also any, any anything that goes against the fabric of the, the nostalgia in the school culture for elementary schools and things like that. We realize the import of that is a very visceral and emotional issue. And we we don't want to we definitely want to hear from parents. We want to hear from  some of the identified  populations that came with the many emails that we got in responses about what happens with  the parent, for example, who has three siblings, all the different all  all three kids at different schools. How is that? How does that happen? There are a lot of issues that came up that we we don't have answered yet, and it's too important and substantial a thing to do.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And I can present also what we what we're trying to do, just so you can hear it straight up. What we were really trying to do was if you

[17095-33] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (sentence onset clipped into an  | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: And just for the public's knowledge, the manifest is available for viewing by the public. During a little bit after the meeting or if it's put at the back table. But we do have to take the manifest with us when we leave.
TEXT> So  it's. Not available for the public for viewing because it has student names.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And oh, I thought that was going to be redacted. I apologize. I apologize. We do not have this some student data redacted out. Apologize for that misinformation. Is there

[14986-137] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: So. I guess what I'm wondering is trying to figure out how to articulate this. So it seems it seems so we're testing them at the beginning of the year and what they should know at the end of the year. Yes. Okay. Yeah.
TEXT> Because if we if we test students at the beginning of the year and we find out they already know what we plan to teach, it's it's a waste of time to teach that material. And so we want to move on to something else.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Right.

[16857-3] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: those in favor? Aye. Opposed? All right. Seeing? None. Oh, and then, just a reminder. If cell phones and electronic devices should be either off or on. Silent, please. And that said, we're on to item number one, which is the presentation on consolidation plan.
TEXT> Referred to as the principals plan. Last at our last board meeting. And so we actually have  multiple plans to present to you and we'll get into that. But I would be completely remiss if I did not any time I have the public's attention and the board's attention. Take a moment to talk to you about our staff. And,  I'm sure, like many of you parents, teachers, board members, principals, it does not matter our role. We've been  receiving comments.  Concerns a worry. You know, we're worried about you. We're concerned about you. How are you doing? We've all been receiving them, right? Regardless of our role. And I want to take this time, along with Mr. Sheena and Mr. Blunt, to say the elementary schools are amazing. Now, please don't take that as the middle and buy or not, I just don't get to speak to them as often or get to be in their schools. But you need to know something that I'm going to refer to as  Claremont Educator Syndrome. And,  this is going to surprise some of you, but not all of you, because I'm, I'm proud to say I'm not even going to say. I'm ashamed to say because I'm not. I'm old. And I have had some of you in the audience as students.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I've had some of you in the audience. I've had the privilege of having your children, and I been in Claremont last year. I finished my 32nd year in the

[16477-302] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: All right. I haven't heard of this for the high schools. And my big thing is that the first person responsible for the education of their student is the parent. How do how did the parents find out about this. And.
TEXT> I don't think yeah. It's not really a program for individual students or  for parents. It's really to improve instruction among the teachers.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's through the teachers. So they become better instructors that go that the students benefit from. It's it's not like a okay.

[9495-770] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: In in.
TEXT> The 800 pound elephant in the society we live in, in the day and age where law enforcement is being disrespected every day, this position is bridge that gap to get kids to remember what it's all about and respect law enforcement again. And that to me above all else, is is an amazing accomplishment. So, you know, you can you can go for it, but you don't have to sell me at all. I just think this is definitely one of those positions where it's about safety, it's about community, it's about respect. It's about all of those things. And in fairness, Michelle, there's not a technology in the world that's going to replace what this can do for us. I mean, the technology can help her do the job better.
NEXT> Unidentified: Correct.

[15311-149] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And and we still have successfully picked up people mid-year and stuff like that to transition in, we're still we're still not giving. Up, still trying. Yeah.
TEXT> So it means those parents can tell other parents, my child is doing great. And Felix and it's so good. Move us on.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Through the agenda. So we're going to talk now about the Claremont District budget update.

[8762-360] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I agree with Chris' [544]  | 2016-11-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: equal access to the district's curricular courses. What what do we as a board wish to support there? Versus what do we wish not to support their versus what the law actually says? Because are we talking about, providing the entire math series for each?
TEXT> Well, I'm just thinking it's it's a slippery slope, but to this equal access, I don't know how you could do that. If our if if our curriculum is taught in a classroom, they don't come to our school, how do you give them equal access? Are we now supposed to provide an online course specifically for homeschoolers or charter schools, who are theoretically taking students out of our school district?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: My my experience has been a home school student. Needs to have a biology class with a lab and in the home. They cannot provide that. The student lives in

[16215-350] Frank Sprague | Finance Committee Chair; School Board Vice Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: The area.
TEXT> To the concerning thing from,  from my perspective on this is that,  we, we, we sort of accepted these jumps in out of district placements and the we blamed it on the disruption of Covid. And so that's how we sort of rationalized how the disruption of kids coming back.  And having not been in school, the different experiences they had when they weren't in school, socio emotional things. But we've been back in school now for a while, and yet there's no settling down back to a sense of normalcy around this. Not looking for an answer right now, but it's one of those,
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Legacy damage. Like, we have legacy costs, legacy damage. Now, at this point.

[14875-117] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the chair — 'Mr. Pratt i | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: like an eighth grade academy approach, where they would designate a certain section of the high school, now we're able to get them socially, emotionally ready by the end of their eighth grade year and hopefully have a smoother transition into the ninth grade year.
TEXT> Because what we see at the at the high school level, ninth grade year, they're like I said, they're trying to acclimate to a much bigger environment, more responsibility. But in the meantime, it does impact their academics. And so by the end of their ninth grade year, they may have failed a few classes. Now they're in their 10th grade year, halfway through their grade year. Maybe they feel another class and all of a sudden that automatically impacts our dropout rate, our graduation rate, and opportunities. This gives us the opportunity for the eighth grades to get to prepare socially and emotionally in a much bigger environment. And I feel that for students who struggle, were able to offer them, you know, we have the advisories on Mondays and then we have the structured study time,  Tuesday through Friday, where that's the time they can go to other academic teachers to get the help they need in their schedule in there. On top of that, we have a house system where the eighth graders will be put into the health system. With the two administrators, it becomes much more personalized and makes it the environment feels smaller.  We like to recognize when they do things great, just like the school does, but it also allows us to continue to grow certain areas in the in the arts, in the music, in the theater.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: That in giving those kids those opportunities that they had at the middle school, but also continue to have at the high school level because, you know, we want to

[17300-40] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; convenes and moderates this candidate forum, reads | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: one of the most important things we do in our public schools that we don't do well enough in many cases, is explain to people why we offer the best opportunities for their kids. That's what we should be trying to do all the time.
TEXT> Very good.  I'm going to I'm going off track here.  So  just FYI, this district, passed a, Warren article  in March,  that,  said that we would pay for zero students to go out of district, and it was more physical, reaction to limit our exposure,  for future financial, burdens that we had no control over how many students we might have to end up paying for. How do you reconcile open enrollment with the fiscal responsibility for a district that, people might not understand the value of the current education?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So. So the open enrollment law is has not been well understood in New Hampshire since it was passed in 2009, which might be one of the reasons no school

[23815-725] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) | 2026-08-19
PREV> Unidentified: Oh.
TEXT> Thank you, Madam Chair. Just on the Director of Athletics draft, where it says recommend annually for school board approval. Student athlete coaches handbooks. School board. I didn't know if you had a time frame in there.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: This year at September 2nd.

[10649-13] Samantha Bailey | Public commenter, Ward 3 (ASR 'Samantha Bailey and three'; spelling un | 2019-12-12
PREV> Unidentified: I heard.
TEXT> You mentioned the pride programs that talking about a second pride program. So I heard younger school and older students. What's the transition? What's your plan for the future transition from the younger to the middle before help at the high school.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Right now, we looked at the success of the pride program, and we know our numbers in at the time that we had to prepare this. Once the money came

[10993-248] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: But we're not at zero, okay.
TEXT> We're at the maximum four out of 13,000. So from a statistical standpoint, we're pretty close to it. Anyway, I'm going on to the next thing,  I value Prescott's impression of his, educational experience. However, I don't think he represents every kid at that school. I was just in there with Mike two days ago, and even though it was a small class, we spoke to the class and we said to them, right now, how would you feel about going back full time and having a full class? Was there one kid in that class who said they didn't want to do that?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Mike no.

[16602-424] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Committee Chair | 2025-06-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: It just might be a touchstone.
TEXT> So there will be students moving in and out.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: In the afternoon.

[11720-76] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Unidentified: People don't.
TEXT> Want to if you it's newfound freedom and time with your family like everyone else. It's tough to have staff to lock up staff. So our  staff has just been tremendous. I,  another,  announcement that I was going to wait, but I'll say it now. So we have,  we also have a new interim  principal at,  Maple,  who we we  just finalized today. The committee met and immediately put them forward. It's Nicole Bailey who's from sunup.  Music  instructor has a lot of experience. Administration  certificate and  really, really impressed the folks at,  at Maple. So we walked around today and I  mentioned that because just walking around the building, there were teachers in there prepping, you know, all over the place. You know, I think we saw 6 or 8 teachers prepping for the program, things that you don't see, you know, typically behind, but,  very, very energized to go. And also even the ones that weren't there, we saw rooms all set up to go with student stuff in all allocated already to go already,  for right after the long weekend. So again, the a lot of effort went into that. So it's it's a wonderful thing.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: We're pretty excited because of the fact that there's so many districts out there that.

[8948-199] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: layered on top of that growth data look like? You know, if we look at students with ten or more absences, 15 or more absences, 25 or more absences, what is their data look like compared to those who are attending on a regular basis?
TEXT> And that has implications for this board in terms of policy making and things of that nature. So it's really all connected. And without that benchmark systematic assessment that is objective, that is neutral, that is statistically relevant and viable. We wouldn't be able to do that if we relied on each individual teacher or even an individual grade level to create an assessment and tell us whether or not they're students are making growth, we wouldn't be able to look system wide. Your responsibility is system wide, not an individual classroom, not an individual grade level. And so, there is a lot of time and energy put into this. Absolutely. But if we're making decisions for our system, we need to have some some references for that system level decision making. And this is what gives us that, that level of reference. We I think we heard from multiple people, maybe everybody. They use additional data points, whether it be teacher created assessments, program assessments, other nationally Norman Criterion referenced assessments. I think Melissa talked about in my in maybe all three of them talked about Rigby assessments. We also use assessments. And so there are other things that they are using to know whether or not a student is making growth, going on, the gut feeling, that's a component of it.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: But that can't be the only thing that we look at. So, you know, jokingly, yeah, you have a lot of opinion. Your question I know, I know where you're

[15311-64] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - recognized as 'Mr. Tempesta' at seg | 2023-09-20
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: Oh. I'm sorry. Can I ask you a question about the student board position? So when do those elections take place?
TEXT> We should have that already, but I. I'll follow up with  Chris Pratt. Usually they put it out to faculty and  in students. I mentioned it to him in the last meeting.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Okay. Did the, did that section that Arlene just read get, get referenced for the position so students know what they're signing on for?

[11510-78] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: probably looking at a course. Repeat. And then we still left in the S to highlight for you as a parent, whether it be on an assignment or as a final grade, the student that doesn't do anything. So hopefully there's clarity there. Okay. Now.
TEXT> And the c r  would most likely represent a 60 to a 69. So a student who got that numerical average  is close enough. Where summer credit recovery time would be enough time for them to be able to make that up. Below that, we figure those six weeks in the summer is probably not enough for them to recover the entire class. So that's what right now we're looking at, is that would be approximately a 60 to a 69.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: So let's review the key points before I take you into the grade book. And we'll show you kind of how this plays. On the teacher side, we're allowing the

[9764-60] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: all the children in the index index classroom. Encouraging that all student be checked. You can go that route. But what's important, though is that a child's. According to the medical profession, a child's head lice is noticed long after the child has been infested.
TEXT> The other thing that's important study of tens of thousands of children about a decade ago. Reported that schools with no policies showed no fewer cases of lice than those without the policies. So that's why I do not support a no nit policy. However, as I've explained to all of you as school board members, you have the responsibility of policy. And in school board members, you have the right to change this policy. But I have a responsibility to share information that I have with you and the community just so decisions can be informed. But we try to protect the student from being  identified, but from being ostracized. We protect the student we communicate with, with the parents. We have checked an individual student privately. We have not done classroom screenings. If we were to do some classroom screenings, we need to talk about staffing and we need to talk about some money here. So I just think it's important that if you wish to make a change, just changing a policy will have some consequences as far as implementation. And that has to be revisited as well. The aggravation and the frustration of parents I acknowledge, I question whether the answer is, I know nit policy based on what research  and our pediatricians and other organizations have have cited. So that's what I'm really relying on, not what I feel, but what experts have cited. I hope that answers your question, Steve.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So if we go back to when the policy was adopted in 2013, how many school nurses did we have on board when we had a no net policy?

[16433-106] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-04-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's that's really what we want to hear.
TEXT> That's right. And right now I, I'm looking at three for next year coming back. That's somewhere. Five one half $1 million. Then reaching out. And so I'm aging. So we we're we're making ground. We brought kids back this year that have saved the district some big money. One of them. Nobody believed he'd be able to make an a general ed classroom. He was in a general led classroom being successful. But it's taken a lot of work, a lot of patience, a lot of just eyes on him and encouraging and all of that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So yeah.

[16046-35] Yoshi Manale | CITY MANAGER, City of Claremont - the chair hands the first agenda ite | 2024-09-30
PREV> Yoshi Manale: these fields is a joint effort requiring significant time and resources from the Parks Department to streamline this. We've discussed creating a sports field specialist position, a seasonal role focused on field maintenance during the spring and fall for the school and city recreation programs.
TEXT> The school district has expressed interest in subsidizing this position, and we are exploring ways to include it in next year's budget. Moreover, we recently had a demonstration of Perf tank two, a state of the art tool for lining sports fields. This piece of equipment has a potential to revolutionize field maintenance, saving time and reducing cost, providing more efficient and precise line marking. Both the city and  say you are excited about the benefits of technology will bring to our athletic programs, as it will enhance the quality of our facilities and free up valuable resources for other tasks. Finally, Superintendent Pratt and I have met quarterly to continue the open dialog of working collaboratively. This includes participating in the most recent consultant interviews on the strategic planning and discussions on potential applications for grants for continued education in the Tech Center. We also discuss potential solar panel installations on city and school properties, and the possibilities of future field and athletic space for the school district. In closing, I want to emphasize how important this cooperation cooperation is to Claremont's future. The City Charter calls for this kind of collaboration, and tonight's meeting is a testament to our shared commitment to serving the community. By working together, we can maximize our resources, improve services, and better meet the needs of our residents and students. I'm excited about the future of this partnership, and look forward to continuing our discussions and building on the progress we've made.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Do you have anything?

[10330-97] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [1], asks Mrs. Wo | 2019-04-17
PREV> Jason Benware: population creating the vast majority of this. Just just for perspective sake, it's obviously still a problem, but it's not a problem for a ton of people. It's a small group that that is sort of this is coming from. So I think that's important.
TEXT> Right. So it's 52 students that are paid status, which means they need they would pay in full the 14 free or reduced. How are they accruing a debt if they're supposed to be free. Is that is that buying extra items. So that's free or reduced. Children that are buying.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's either buying extra items or they, either allowed the you have to reapply for free or reduced lunch every school year. It carries over for the first 30 days

[9986-298] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Jason' [145],[484]); clu | 2018-09-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Jason.
TEXT> Another point that was brought up that needs some resistance, but the nurses brought it up. And I think it's worth bringing up is that their concern also isn't just things touching on coat racks and things like that, but also the carpets are not carpets, but rugs, area rugs in the rooms and how kids sitting together on area rugs, rolling around on area rugs and then, you know, transferring from rugs. And, and my understanding is, is there's some contention about this amongst people that they don't want to give up their rugs. But if we're going to talk about what the nurses actually say, the nurses suggest that this is an issue. So it's something to consider.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: If that the educational practices that the rugs helps to facilitate, and what alternatives would there be to rouse, if any, that would allow the educational practices to continue struggle

[8380-79] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: a car driven by someone else that contributes to your safety? Or alternatively, if you don't do it, may contribute to injury. During the past 12 months, how many times were you in a physical fight? And have you ever used an E vapor product?
TEXT> And most of these questions first, ask students to indicate whether or not they have experience with a particular behavior behavior, and then they dig a little deeper and ask how many times you've done it, or how much you do, so that they have the chance to sort of flesh out our understanding of what's going on. Limitations. In a perfect survey world, it's entirely random. In this survey world, you have to realize that only those who show up on the day that the survey is being given can be surveyed. Only those who  have permission to participate can be surveyed, and anyone who is homeschooled is not being surveyed. So with  that understanding, this is the data we have. The other thing that's really important is to realize that the data we get tells us what students are doing. It doesn't tell us why. So we still need to think about and analyze. And that's where strategies for teaching and other things come in.  And. Our initial focus. Remember there are six different categories of behavior. And you heard from Dennis last time about particularly alcohol and tobacco use and other substance abuse issues.  Our focus for the wire to begin with was on sexual behavior. There were reasons we chose it. And so I wanted to make sure that you're aware of them. The first is the risk of HIV infection, which many of us thought was no longer such a big deal.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: But if you've been listening to what's been going on in rural parts of Indiana, for example, the opioid crisis has led to a resurgence of HIV in a number

[10683-271] Danielle Skinner | Food Program Coordinator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Continue on.
TEXT> The as Richard had reported earlier in the year, the national annual National School Lunch application was submitted. Claims have been put through. That all looks great this year. Meal applications, which is something that there has been a question about as far as our people getting the applications to be able to send them in. Are we making every available effort to help them? Anytime a parent has a question, I try to make myself available email, phone, voicemail. There's actually a video on the food service as a portion of the website as well, a presentation that I created to guide them through the application. We still have parents calling me, letting me know that they're having a hard time with the online portion. So I offer the paper ones. As of 11 or November 26th, 108 students that had benefits at the beginning of the year and then they expired, didn't reapply. That does concern me, because what ends up happening is they start accruing a bill and then I get a month later. Why do I have the bill? So I'm still looking for ways to without overtly identifying because I can't do that, I can't I can't just call somebody and say,  you qualified last year, you don't have an application and yet can I send you one? So without or I can send home fliers, I can send home notices.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Is it against the law?

[9020-20] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: child's education. But this particular bill would allow funding designed for public education to be drawn. So let's say we had let us say we had two students in second grade, three and third grade, one in fourth grade and maybe four in fifth grade.
TEXT> And the parents opted to have their children withdraw from the art school district and go to another district. That reduction of students would not necessitate a need to reduce staffing, but it would draw $36,000 from the Claremont School District. And that's what this is really about. It's not about school choice. It's not about charter school, private school, parochial school. It's really about declining revenue for municipalities from the state and in our case, for the school district  already declining. We we all experienced this past year.  This budget I testified yesterday, this budget, the fiscal year 17 budget caused an increase of $0.11 per $1,000  on the Claremont tax rate. But because of a reduction of stabilization funding for this year, that 11 set increase changed to $1.25 increase. It wasn't because of the school board and the administration and the faculty and the budget. It was about the reduction of revenue. So I emphasized the importance  of. Along with many other many other individuals, emphasized the importance of looking at this very carefully, that Senate Bill 193 is much more about choice. It also has a major financial impact and $36,000 a year, $36,000 there, where  we're not balancing any reduction of staff  would be more than challenging.  The meeting was held in one room. They had to relocate to another room.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: There were so many people, and because of the state fire marshal who probably would have closed down the meeting, we had to relocate to another room, which were where

[17017-504] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (clipped into a neighbouring cluster) | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So do we have any applicants for the management position?
TEXT> We do. So, yes. And except that interview is happening in the next couple of days. So Mr. Weatherford is really up to get those going. So,  again, the PD days, we're working on those. So, we did I just a quick shout out to Maple Avenue School and Disney School. So we've done some responsive classroom learning walks. And so we've had administrators from all the different levels. It was really important for everybody. So I mean, the elementary teachers and principals I think really have a better understanding of that. But I need everybody to understand that is what does it look like? So where do we start with our early grades? What does it look like. And one of the takeaways that we had is looking at the middle school and high school the other day. And so Doctor Harrington was there, miss Harrington was there.  And we had Mr. Sheena and, you know, what are some takeaways that we can have? So we saw a lot of engagement. We saw a lot of interactions. Students that were happy, you know, really focusing on the work for the Responsive classroom. This is specifically looking at morning meetings and just starting the day.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So it's a great positive start to the day. Like what are some takeaways. I know Doctor Harrington was talking about, you know, ensuring staffer in the hallways and greeting

[17092-499] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: to be adjusting. And meanwhile, we're not implementing the social studies because it's too much a social studies and science curriculum, because it's too much of a lift for the teachers to be doing those things. And we put ourselves back 2 or 3 years.
TEXT> I mean, this is my this is I know I'm tired, everybody's tired. But I  think this is the best model. And it's it's 100% budget neutral. It increases and it puts a social worker at every school, budget neutral, social worker at every school. This is something that teachers have been talking about and principals have been talking about since, you know, we got to have these teachers, these social workers. So  this model would allow for increased guidance, support, increased social services report. Oh, and one more thing that if we maintained the staffing that we have now, we could cover all of our administrative positions, actually hyper fill our administrative positions and give an extra, probably student service coordinator at the high school without hiring anybody with just using existing staff. And we all know how challenging is to feel vacancies. It's also the model with the lowest vacancy rates to fill, so we have a much higher likelihood of filling vacancies. So that's my pitch. And Mr. Sprague.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so I'm going to be clear I every every school I ever worked in other than Stevens High School was a a six through 12 model. So I know

[9128-162] Jason Hughes | Food service director, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated; spelling  | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Okay, so our car is separate from the fruit and salad cart.
TEXT> Yes, yes. So your your lunch, your reimbursable lunch is the same for a paid free and reduced student. It is an entree it meets. It's an offer versus service. We offer five different items grain milk protein, vegetable, fruit. So child comes through every child. They come through the line. They pick their hot entree or they pick a sandwich if they want a sandwich or a pre-made salad. Or they can hit the salad bar as part of the option for the five items. So every child is offered that the things we're talking about purchasing are all cart items. So we have what's called smart snack calculator. So the schools are allowed to sell whole grain alternatives to snacks.  So there might be some chips. There might be,
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Brownies.

[9495-852] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Melissa Lewis: It's kind of that in between number where three would be very low twos right there.
TEXT> So if all were the same it would be a much easier math problem. But 1 or 2 very needy children change that ratio very quickly and justifiably so.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: No question Michelle.

[9328-83] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Any other citizens, like come forward, make comments.
TEXT> If I may interject,  you'll notice on our agenda, the student representative slot is blank. But I'm very pleased to introduce to you. For those who don't know,  Lexi Grenier. Lexi, welcome. Delighted to have you representing,  the Claremont School District.  Tradition has it, Lexi, that, there are  there is a student representative report. Were you prepared to do that today?
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: Yes.

[15058-155] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2023-05-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Is presented at this point. Correct. Right. Because I think that aligns with what you were saying earlier about an overriding. But maybe with this new programing we're putting in place, we'll have data correct.
TEXT> Yeah. And so we'll have more information to better assess what the student's situation is. Thank you.
NEXT> Ben Nester: I mean, a point on that is that if you're a. If you're a school. Based team, right, a student support team that is looking at students that are at

[15286-85] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: in the peers will say I wasn't there, but this is how I see it affects the school. And they make and they would make the decision on, you know, with a staff member also present at the meeting will make a decision as well.
TEXT> Like last year, we had some, you know, possible bullying, harassment. So that student did a,  a learning project.  And it's usually about takes. They have to work after school of two hours at a, at a time on this project. And they presented to their health class. So we're trying to chime in restorative practices using the discipline matrix to be the consistent to get us moving forward. But going reflecting back on restorative and how we can change the behaviors because we know the punitive piece, it's there, but it doesn't necessarily change the behaviors and teach the kid the soft skills they need to have. So we're excited about moving on with a student panel this year and growing the student leadership within the building. Interesting is that,  I was told by our registrar that the state called the  and wanted to know  if our graduation, if our dropout rate was reported accurately because we had such a significant lower dropout rate at the high school. And so I know is that,  I tried to get the numbers for today, but it was,  it was a little difficult. What I can tell you is that our numbers went down at least half of what they were over the previous year. And so that's why the state reached out to us and wanted to know if our numbers were reported accurately.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So that's I think that's great news. It's it's showing growth for the students and the teachers. The other thing is what else are we doing? Well, I said, so

[8558-86] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Michael O'Neill: to make the change before I started was. And I know that it's something that as I said, I'm disappointed that I haven't followed up on, but I think it's time to have a discussion about where we want to go with this. Thank you.
TEXT> I know that one of the main reasons that  we wanted to look at  an outside source was the types of meals and the food that was provided for students. But I've also noticed that since we've been talking about this, that there have been a lot of improvement where we continue to have these kind of improvements to try to.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Yes. And that's and that's basically what some of this information that Middleton provided this evening is. Continued improvements. That was my feeling all along is that instead of going

[15385-16] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - gives the superintendent's report at segments  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: So there any questions for would you briefly remind the community what the Teachers United Teach Unite is about?
TEXT> Yeah. So it is it is a  it's it's a grant that we signed up for in all of the schools. We were going to do it at the high school, but,  Principal Pratt had to delay entering it because of all the work that they're doing with the Odyssey where and all this other initiatives. But they come out, they build capacity  with the teachers, they look at student work and, you know, stealing your thumbs. Go ahead. Yeah. Yeah.
NEXT> Mike Koski: There's there's two programs, one for early educators. They provide virtual coaching support and instructional support for people who are in the first three years of becoming a teacher. And

[17168-46] Nora Shane | Public commenter, Ward 3 — Stevens High School senior; opening joke th | 2026-02-18
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Are you guys sick of me yet? I'm still. Nora Shane and I still live in Ward three and I'm a senior at Stevens, so I'm going to try to make this short because quite frankly, I'm really tired of having a price tag put on my education and my siblings education, and I'm really tired of having to fight. So I've compiled a list of things the state of New Hampshire require school districts to offer but refuses to pay for. These things are called unfunded mandates. And,  New Hampshire's public school system seems to be run almost entirely  off of these unfunded mandates. So, first of all, some background information,  on average, in New Hampshire, school districts spend about $20,000 per student. This number is slightly higher for Claremont. But just to keep it simple, we're using round numbers. So,  the state only provides about 4800 of that. Again, I think this is slightly higher for Claremont, but we're just keeping it simple here.  As I'm sure you all know, Claremont taxpayers are responsible for covering the rest of this cost.
NEXT> Nora Shane: So this information was compiled from Reaching higher New Hampshire and verified across a couple of other sources. So one, school nurses, they are required in every school in New

[16530-18] Lily Clark | Student Board Member, Stevens High School | 2025-05-07
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Nice.
TEXT> It was really fun.  So sports baseball,  currently has a 4 to 3 record, which is actually pretty good.  There was supposed to have a game today at four. They traveled there and then found out that they could not play. So now they're back. Softball has a 1 to 5 record, and then track has been doing really well, especially unified track. The Unified Kids are really excited, and I think we're going to win states again. Last year we got runner up, but this year I think we can pull it off. And then lacrosse unfortunately has a 0 to 4 record.  Hopefully we can give them some more school spirit.  And then for the music and theater department.  Stephen's band, choir and musical theater are going to Agawam, Massachusetts this Friday to participate in music in the parks. We usually go almost every single year.  We have won first place and many of our performances as well as second place.  We're playing Halsey and Hearts and Lexington March for band. Aurora borealis and yonder come day.  For choir. And then we have campfire song from our musical theater.  After we perform in the morning, we get to have a very fun time at Six Flags New England.
NEXT> Lily Clark: And in the evening, we go to Picnic Grove and we find out how well we did. And then the day after, we have our prom. We have been working

[17116-69] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter — former school board member ('when I was on the boar | 2026-01-20
PREV> Matt Angell: the teachers are going to be able to practice together within that grade area. I think you can speak better to it than I can. And then also we can put more resources to the kids and, and really try to move these test scores.
TEXT> Well,  my comment would be to make sure that if we're looking at possibly 40 new teachers, we need mentoring, we need people to help the staff and not leave them floating and analysts. So we need to  we need to help the new staff. I'll make a comment in direction to somebody that said that the s a office needs to be cut further. If you look back at some of them are Onyx, it shows that the SEC is understaffed and likely led to some of the problems that we had with the budgeting the past couple of years. Thank you. Tommy. Interesting board to I had a question. You propose, A versus B, it would be clear that you can show the taxpayer, the taxpayer exactly what they're paying. Your taxes will go up 3%, your taxes will go up 7%. Most people are going to read that. They're not going to know what they're signing up for. You really need clear what that means to a taxpayer if it's on the ballot. Secondly, the doubt building you need to treat this as a business. We're believing you like you basically have no money on the table. You can't afford the schools. We really need to start looking at selling buildings, the Dow building, you need to close the building now. You need to utilize a space in high school. How many students do we have in Stevens right now?
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: 500. How many students can we handle on Stevens? 1500. We have plenty of space here. Now, looking at this article in January 16th, Kean High School that came from

[9171-116] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: My question is, what does the average of your classroom score tell you? Like how do you.
TEXT> We haven't looked at it at that level yet because we're just in year one implementation. So as we get better with understanding the data and understanding what the, Like how to best respond to that data, we'll be able to look at all of the different reports. So one of the piece, the training next week, is really focused on all of the different reports, even available. Right now. We're really using only a very small portion of what is available. It's just in terms of how data is reported. The higher you go from the student to the district, the as soon as you get away from that single student, you start with averages. So then just to keep in mind, when you look at averages, you could have a child that made negative growth and you could have another child who made three years worth of growth in that same pool. So that.
NEXT> Unidentified: That was okay.

[16226-39] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - introduced b | 2024-12-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: About the related services.
TEXT> So I did I sent an email to Mr. Pratt and  Mr. McCosker together, listing a bunch of things that I think is important for us to have to make our final decision about the pre-K and what the actual budget impact will be if related to contracted services, if we need to change our service model to provide for kids outside of the preschool program, and all the variables that could actually negate the decrease.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I think there's a special there's some special grant money that goes there as well. So yeah, so the number that you're looking at that for 400 number, that's just

[10624-14] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-21
PREV> Jason Benware: I would like to defer my time to chair. I'm sorry, school board chair.
TEXT> I wanted to give a little background. Anyone who follows Facebook can certainly recognize that there are some misconceptions and  things that need to be cleared up a little bit about what this is all about, and  I want to do a little bit history lesson. I think everybody in the room, sort of the Claremont suit,  which  brought to everyone's attention the the issue of adequately funding education in New Hampshire, the austerity wave that swept through the state  following the Great Recession  earlier in 2000  prompted lawmakers to phase out  stabilization grants. These stabilization grants were recognition by the state that certain towns are not being one of them, were not able to  get by  by local taxes,  as well as adequacy funds being provided  by the state. They phase these out due to their perception of excuse me, and the reality that class sizes and student enrollments have been reducing over the last 20 or 30 years. So the the reduced voted to reduce over a 20 year period of time at a rate of 5%, 4%, 5% a year. The adequacy funding, which in Claremont is about a quarter of $1 million in. So every year the Claremont School Board came to the table knowing the first thing we have to do is cut 250,000 to level fund next year's level. That was the starting point.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The, as the years rolled on with this, various districts began to feel some distress. Claremont being one, Berlin being one, Pittsfield being one. Then came the election of 2018.

[9385-531] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mike'; ASR 'Michael Neal' | 2017-10-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: The cat aid. That's, on students who have extraordinary expenses associated.
TEXT> If they pay more than three and a half times the average cost per student, if we pay three and a half times or more, we get a certain percentage of that back. If it's over ten times, then we get 100% of it back, theoretically. But the state does is they do a calculation of what your entitlement is.  Our entitlement for this year would have been 400,000, $400,001. They were agreed to give us the reduced amount of 277,500.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So what is a student typical student? The costs of their programing have to be in a year to to qualify their them for a.

[10876-12] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, takes his own ro | 2020-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Just be quiet.
TEXT> Any noises or shuffling, it's going to get picked up. Okay.  We have an agenda in front of us tonight.  I have a proposal,  a proposed change to that agenda,  under discussion items, article four item update on graduation. I would like to move that up and put that, contiguous with the superintendent's report. So we would put it, we would have the student representative report, and then we would do the update on graduation before, before we would or part of the superintendent's report. So I'd like to get that out. Matt Upton is with us tonight and I'd like to have his,  there's been a lot of conversations, emails around graduation and what's going on with that. So I'd like to get that right out there at front. Heather made that suggestion today and I think it's a good one.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: I make a motion that we accept the agenda as amended.

[9849-296] Ryan McNutt | City Manager, Claremont (mayor: 'Mr. McKnight. Did you have anything'  | 2018-06-21
PREV> Ryan McNutt: be the home page. That's where everybody goes and sees our community first. It's a gateway into the downtown. It's a gateway for newcomers to to see Claremont. It also affects the perception and pride of Claremont that have resided here at their whole lives.
TEXT> Additionally, we've budgeted $300,000 this year for paving, so we're going to be doing a lot more road maintenance work as well, as our DPW is conducting a pavement category indexing to be able to classify the conditions of our road so that we are spending our money where it is needed on the roads that need the most work  and not, you know, just, you know, sort of picking roads at random because, you know, some folks think they're bad. It will be done with a more  scientific,  viewpoint so that we are making sure that we leverage every dollar invested in our roadways to its maximum.  One of these roadways that I think benefits the school because it's a heavily traveled route by students is East Street. So our goal on  street, we've had a culvert that needs to be repaired. And that's something that we're going to be moving forward with. The opportunity in fixing that culvert is we have to dig up a bunch of the road and sidewalk. So that gives us the opportunity to do sidewalk replacement, that were and there will also be some rail trail work that connects into East Street, but primarily it's going to be fixing the culvert and new sidewalks. And that work is expected to begin in September.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So that.

[14630-47] William Lupini | Consultant conducting the SAU 6 organizational and staffing study (ASR | 2022-09-29
PREV> William Lupini: those kinds of things. And while we won't dive as deeply into those, one of the things I've indicated to Mike is that we will share with him and with all of you some of those, some of that feedback that we receive, as well.
TEXT> So I'm happy to try to answer any questions.  You may have. And  we look forward to continuing to interview people and work with your documents. I just, I the last thing I really want to say  in terms of this presentation is just how wonderful people have been in terms of setting aside time in their schedules.  And, and, you know, at the beginning of every one of these, I'm saying to people, we really need you to be honest with us. We need to tell us to tell you from your perspective what's working, what's not. And I just sometimes that's a challenge in some districts we've worked with, your people have been wonderful in terms of really telling us their perspective on on what's happening and what's working and what's not. All all in a very positive way, geared toward trying to make things work. People are really engaged in trying to make sure that your saw and that the districts can, can do the work that they're there to do in terms of serving kids. So I'm, thank you for for engaging us to do this. And I'm happy to answer any questions you may have.
NEXT> Unidentified: Whitney, I have a quick question.

[16286-3] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (states her agenda request — minutes 1/21/25; segm | 2025-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: And that will be, item number two. Can I have a second for that motion, Mr. Sprague? Seconds. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion. Is there any opposition to adding this item to the agenda? Seeing none, we're going to add that item to the agenda.
TEXT> Miss Cronenberg and Miss Hawkins would like to speak briefly about. Yes. I would like to add  an agenda item to discuss an exploratory committee for,  maximizing student opportunities. We've had a lot of discussion through the budget process and through all of the work that we've all been doing. That's transparent, and I'd like to discuss the opportunity to develop an exploratory committee. On student opportunities.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: On maximizing student opportunities. So I would like to make a motion to amend the agenda to include Miss Hawkins request for a discussion on creating an ad hoc subcommittee

[8558-546] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Unidentified: About the.
TEXT> Kids that are going to lose a special education and all this stuff that's been lined up, the great programs and stuff. And we're looking at just walking away and going, you know, I think we need to go back to the other schedule because, well, you know, we agree with it, but this is what we're forced with. We are forced in this position regardless to how we got here. However, when we're making this call tonight, please just consider one thing. Loss of jobs, loss of programs. Having to redevelop your teachers, your principles path. All four of you are teachers and principals. You've, you know, the angst and the the problems of which of of anybody you guys have gone through. We want our teachers to be paid better. We need to work with our teachers. We need to be better everywhere. But we can't do that when a union is dictating. I was in a union. I had to vote as a union member in my lifetime. I understand unions and the union does do that. You know what all your teachers all these years never got anything but words and no money. We're talking about getting rid.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: Of the words.

[8258-436] Joel Snide | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (ASR 'Joel Snid | 2016-03-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: So in the in the past students that that complete the program with the early childhood, where have they been moving on to. They have they been starting daycares.
TEXT> Well we've had some some pairs start daycares that worked in the center. But students, I can't speak to that. Some of them have gone on to college. Okay, I know, and again, Mr. Irish can corroborate that. In Vermont, one of the requirements for having a program is that there's a social need for it. It's not only in New Hampshire, it's high skill, high wage and a demand. We don't have social media. I don't believe in our and our description of what's required for CTE, but Vermont recognizes that. But I will tell you again across the state. It is teacher prep multiple levels okay.
NEXT> Unidentified: So all right. Can I.

[10623-104] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-20
PREV> Unidentified: Well.
TEXT> In the design is the design is through the programing. Kids who can  attend in the whole concept of least restrictive is you want them closest to the typical  environment. The typical programs in the typical offerings, particularly the things,  you know, specials and gym and art and everything that's in it that is much easier  for them to  access when when they're in the district, your your perspective on the long run as well. So if, if, if they can access the regular curriculum, they are assimilated right back in as, as should be. If they need the same types of services all the way out, then they're still at home all the way out. And we we own them till  age 21 anyway. Why not create the program and keep the keep the students in-house? Keep the, the  the costs contain obviously it's it's a practical matter but also we can offer more. It's all the same budget. We can use our budget for, for everyone more effectively this way.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[10577-29] Unidentified | Bluff Elementary first-grade teacher, outdoor education presenter (nam | 2019-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Good.
TEXT> Sorry. We'll make more next time. Was it yummy? Did you like it? Very good. Very good. In the. Upper grades, we get to travel to Moody Park at Moody Park. We have. We have done a lot of fun stuff like Gone  on, Gravity Cavity. And we learned about the erosion on the sides of the paths  on it. And how it happened  is water destroyed it and we went on the longest path. I have part two. So now we're going to we're going to trade with the older kids now because it's too light. And the learning just never stops at blocks outside. Do you like the outside part? Yes. Yeah. What's your Lucas? Come on. Lucas. Being able to play outside in nature. What's your favorite part? Favorite part. About going outside is you get to explore. What's your favorite part? The swings. Please. My mother. Outside. Awesome. All right, come on, first graders, we're going to get. Okay. You guys stand over here. Okay, these are bluff fourth graders. We have Ella Binder and we have Lucas Teboe. And they decided to come tonight and share some things that they've been doing with their outdoor learning. And we made we made you guys a book to look through while we're talking of why we love outdoor learning. So just take a quick look and could pass it around. Okay. Did you want to go first Ella.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. So which one do you want to read first? Ella's going to show a picture of us at Moody. And. And on our trip up the top of French's

[8794-61] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (policy motions [355-396]; 'Frank's moti | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Student athletes. I can't believe those guys are seniors. Parker. And.
NEXT> Unidentified: Somebody posted.

[8577-92] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat is here to bring  | 2016-08-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: Good job. What else. Do you have?
TEXT> The student parent manual to?
NEXT> Chris Irish: Okay.

[15028-137] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair — facilitates the ope | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: Correct.
TEXT> So. Not knowing the exact right down of in school and out of school, that's a a consistent pattern of behavioral issue with three students would be my assumption. How many of those have been recommended for possible further consequence up to expulsion, because that seems like a large disruption 125 days and counting for 90 days.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Sure. I, I want to answer this without getting, the ones that are at 30 have been. Okay. Have been. Yes. Thank you. And that could wait for some of

[7408-210] David Putnam | Former Claremont School Board member reporting on the Stevens High Sch | 2015-03-04
PREV> Michael O'Neill: think there was a percentage we had used of increase, because if you look at the ADM, it's gone down 25% in the past two years. And I don't think I fixed costs have gone down greatly to offset that. I think that a lot.
TEXT> Of for students actually gone up a little bit.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: And that's because your fixed costs remaining the same and you had to come down. That's correct.

[17095-704] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: doctor, and the board of trustees has 18 members. 11 of those are in the health care profession and five are not there in the non health profession. So they're while those positions are being exposed here as well, they can have all of this.
TEXT> The people in those roles do have what would be the equivalent of educational leadership experience. So I would not like to see us go too far from the educational component because that's what we are. We are focused on education. That is our commitment. We are supposed to be working to improve public education and to be advocates of public education. So seeing the addition of  the educational component and the job description did help soften that. My question has to be. If you're saying do an executive leadership search, and I heard someone from the community come up and say originally they felt it should be a superintendent, then not so as long as with any of leadership. And they identified specific people who did not have that certification. Why wouldn't we look in both ways? Do an official superintendent search determine our criteria? Give that to the search group.  Let them lead that there may be an excellent superintendent. There may be nobody. At the same time, move forward with a different type of approach. There may be somebody great. There may be no one. I agree that we're not going to have them beating down the doors to come to Claremont. At this point in time. I think we have a lot of changes going on. We reducing budgets, we're reallocating students. I just worry that we go too far from our educational mission. If we narrow our search.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Mayor.

[8407-221] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'Paulette Fitzgerald, prin | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: For them?
TEXT> And it was interesting because, I heard the elementary principals talking about rigor and really going after that rigor. And that is I was kind of chuckling. I was like, oh, that's the conversation that we're having right now. We really need to be doing more for our higher kids. We know we're we're doing much better with our really low kids, but our high kids, we really have to be doing more for them. So in conclusion, we've identified our areas of need. Like I said, this is a journey, and it seems like every time there's a curve in the road, we get around that curve and we uncover more and that's awesome. It's great that we're discovering all of these things. So we have our I identified areas of need day to day to day. We've learned we we now frequently someone will bring up something and we will say, well, where is the data to support that? What does the data tell us? And we're not using just one data point. We're trying to use multiple data points. So, you know, we've found some discrepancies between aims web data and map data. And so the discussions are really rich.
NEXT> Paulette Fitzgerald: And our staff, as a whole are really becoming more data savvy. And it's part of their regular conversation. We have our next steps planned. We have some summer work

[9328-257] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michel' [174] and 'Miche | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the understanding they're going to be keeping us up to date. And that at the end of the day, it's got to be affordable. But more importantly, even though money is important. It has to be accepted by the community meeting the needs of students.
TEXT> I, I  just want to say that the the timeline was created for a reason. Obviously, we all know that  the flip flop and the confusion and the frustration and everybody all of in arms and then a vote that just took everything out that everybody else had worked on prior to you. So hard to get to that point.  So I, I want to see you as a team members. I definitely want to see some more people on your team. I'd like to see a student and a community family member or a parent or, However, I also want to say that I'm. I want to see the timeline kind of stay within. I understand that it's not going to be a one time thing like it was before, and it just gets dropped. And this is what we do, that it will be a continuing throughout the course of the the new scheduling for Stevens High School.  So it'll be an ongoing process. But I still believe that we do need to have some  timelines, and maybe we need to revamp the timelines and say, okay, this timeline, we will expect this because if we just say no timeline and go, I'm afraid that even if you I don't feel that, I feel it's important to have the timeline.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I think we've outlined that in the pieces. So we're not saying we're we're not going to have anything. Sorry, Becky, but no, it's fine. We will know what the

[16192-140] Malachi | STUDENT PRESENTER, Stevens High School - class vice president and a ju | 2024-12-04
PREV> Malachi: express how they feel in general. We got many a very long responses, a few joking responses, as you would expect, but we had, teachers really were passionate about this. They came to our teacher and just really felt like this needed to be brought.
TEXT> So this is why we came here and wanted to present to you. One of our staff responses was they need more preparation time. Each minute of prep time is prepping for six minutes of class time. This 10s of prep time for each minute of class for students. I have about 100 students this year. If I spend 30s of time, which is a gender generous underestimate, grading one assignment from each student that is about an hour of grading per assignment. Students do not reliably complete assignments that are not graded, so you're looking at a very conservative estimate of 3 to 4 hours of grading outside of every workweek, ignoring reassessments, we have under four hours of prep time each week. Additionally, we are responsible for preparing class materials, making copies, completing disciplinary disciplinary referrals, meetings, subbing when available, cleaning our classroom spaces, etc. with reduced advisory times. Students are not able to complete makeup work during this time, which leads to our additional obligations to stay after school, further cutting down on the time to grade outside of our contractual time.  To summarize, our expectations are. Outside of our contractual time. We have rapidly increased in an unstable way. This staff member is very upset with the new schedule, and I've seen this around the school, not just through students, but through staff.
NEXT> Malachi: The general consensus is there's not enough time. Not enough time to grade, not enough time to function, not enough time for your brain. If you have an English class

[14875-19] Michael Petrin | School Board Chair (presides; never named on this recording — identifi | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: not a pretty meeting. So, had some time to reflect. I just wanted to mention that there are times during the meeting for citizens comments. During the opening and then at time of discussion and action items. At the last meeting, there was some quite.
TEXT> Some disturbances from the audience, from the public that are here to participate in those parts.  That I found that I could at that time ignore and kind of try to move on through the meeting, reflecting on that. That may not have been my best choice. I probably should have stopped and asked for order.  So moving forward, I expect that the people that are here from the public to be witness to our meeting, to participate at the times that is open, to participate, to be respectful and mindful that there's no calling out from the audience. They shouldn't be yelling comments and questions up to the board during the time of the meeting. We appreciate your feedback and your input and having you here at the meeting to be part of this. But this is a school board meeting that we need to keep the order. So I had that time to reflect, and I just wanted  to mention that tonight. So moving forward we need to be respectful of that. I need to be probably tightening the ship up a little bit and steering us better.  So that is my goal for myself.  And I just wanted to mention that tonight, so. That said, we're under the student rec report.
NEXT> Hannah Petrin: This winter program is continuing as well. Students were able to select from a variety of activities for four mornings of fun. Auditions for the play, A Tribute to Broadway,

[8732-21] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-11-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: The minutes is written and presented.
TEXT> You have a second. Second. Any further discussion? All in favor? Aye. Aye. Opposed? Perfect.  Before we get to student representatives report, I just wanted to  acknowledge  we lost a member from  the bus garage clinic, Ken McClure. As actually, the service is happening right now, and,  it's  well attended and  just wanted to pass along at least my thoughts. And, people watching, you know, give, give our best to his family. And,  you know, they're in our thoughts. I would also like to congratulate the boys  varsity soccer team.  They won tonight 3 to 2. And we'll be playing  at you on Saturday.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: At 120.

[15552-99] Unidentified | Claremont educator and parent speaking for the paraprofessionals' agre | 2024-02-03
PREV> Unidentified: absenteeism as, an incredible workforce. Kara's their hands on their at the front line constantly recess, lunch duty, toiletry matters that, like, you cannot imagine. I mean, I don't know how they would do it without them. The relationships that the pairs have with students.
TEXT> Parents. Trusted adults.  Oftentimes, parents are afforded an opportunity to have, relationships with the students that teachers don't because we're juggling content and grades. And parent contact  in the Paris are really the first people there to connect with the students. And my own children have had  have made lifelong relationships with their parents. These people don't have a living wage here in town. Their benefits are far fewer than those of the teachers. And I don't know about you, but I can't think of any establishment in town that pays less than their starting rate to pay. I hope that you. Thank you.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: There's somebody. Yes.

[9497-36] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 ('I've been in central office 17 years' [63]; Sp | 2017-12-06
PREV> Melissa Lewis: Got it. It's kind of that in between number where three would be very low. Two is right there.
TEXT> So if all children were the same it would be a much easier math problem. But 1 or 2 very needy children change that ratio very quickly and justifiably so.
NEXT> Chris Irish: No question Michelle.

[8380-85] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: just talked about and unplanned pregnancies. So now let's look at the local picture. And what I've done here is to try and show you what's true for New Hampshire, and then what's true for Stephens High School, based on the latest, wire BS results.
TEXT> So remember, it's taken biennially. So these have been updated to reflect the 2015 results that we just received this winter. Kids usually take them in the winter or the spring, and it takes a full cycle almost for us to get them back, which is frustrating, but that's the way it is. So across the state of New Hampshire, you can see, how many high school students are engaging in sexual intercourse. You can see that the percentage is higher at Stephens. You can see how many say that they actually had intercourse for the first time before age 13,  that for years slightly higher at Stephens as well. You can see how many are currently sexually active. That means engaging in any sexual behaviors, not necessarily penis intercourse. And then you can see  that a significant portion of students have more than one partner. The reason that's significant in a health perspective is with each additional partner, your risk of STIs increases. So here's the situation for pregnancy and STI risk. 67% of New Hampshire students overall did not use any form of contraception, specifically birth control. The last time they had sex. So birth control pills are still the most common choice teens make, though they are not the best choice for many teens, and the comparable figure at Stephens is slightly higher.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: Just shy of 40% of New Hampshire students, as I said, did not use a condom the last time they had sex. So that's lower than nationwide, but it's still

[15357-61] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School staff member handling the VLACS registrations  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: We created a mechanism. Right. Right. Questions? And then they know what they're walking. Into and address it.
TEXT> Reminding students they can also email those teachers as well.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So I'm not at all familiar with black. So bear with me for another.

[10252-36] Audrey Paxton | Stevens High School senior; student council vice president (self-ident | 2019-02-20
PREV> Leah McCarthy: feel like this leadership conference will be able to help us know the right. I wouldn't say techniques, but like the right way of going at things and just, I don't know, just building bonds between our, like, our classes and our schools and stuff.
TEXT> Hi, my name is Audrey Paxton, and I'm also a senior at Stevens High School.  I'm the vice president and student council.  What I've learned over my four years at Stevens so far is  being a leader is a very special thing. And for those that are natural born leaders, that's awesome. You know, and it's great to have  conferences like this to strengthen those leadership skills. But for others,  leadership qualities must be obtained. So I think that with something like this,  leaving it behind us for the future, classes will really be beneficial for building future leaders into our school board. I'm not school board. Sorry. School community. And, Hopefully continuing that throughout the years to come.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: And eventually on the school board.

[9828-25] Tom Smith | Public commenter; music teacher, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'my  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Steven Horsky: of our children and I would like to ask Mr. Smith to you, please join me at the podium, because my family has a donation of $105, to support the CMS Band fund, and I would like him to speak as to what that is.
TEXT> Thank you so much. That's super generous. Thank you so much, Steve. That's that's this is phenomenal. This is amazing.  Thank you.  So my name is Tom Smith. I'm the music teacher over at CMS. And  this year I've decided to start a little bit of initiative.  I'm calling it sponsor a band kid.  And it's just an opportunity. And I'm reaching out to community members like Steve. And, and I actually posted a little thing in the program this last, last evening and looking in ways to try and support the band kids who who I know where the financials was an issue for them. They were they felt funny about trying to join band because they felt that they couldn't. We have an awesome supply of about 40 or 50 instruments that  students are allowed to are able to rent out for the year, free of cost. But sometimes there's other costs that come out and that come up, like  renting a method book or  box of reads. It depends on the instrument, you know, like the list goes on. So this  I just decided that the number about $35.  We'll sponsor a band kid for an entire year. They get a bands, t shirt,  band, method book, box of reeds, whatever their instrument needs.
NEXT> Tom Smith: It could be sticks, mallets or valve oil, whatever they need, and that will supply them for the year. And this is phenomenal. Thank you so much Steve. This really

[16246-30] Heather Whitney | School Board Member (Finance Committee) | 2025-01-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Well, if they have that program.
TEXT> Well, that's what I'm wondering. Well, if it's a handful of students, I guess what I'm saying is I'm just trying to see what the identification costs that the identification rates are in the school comparing.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So. So can I replace that? You just said so. So, the identification rates where Disney has a very low, comparatively speaking, low special ed rate as opposed to, to

[15413-49] Nicole Bouchard | Student board member, Stevens High School (grade 10) - the chair intro | 2023-11-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I had yeah, I had a question about the 504. But I'd like to go back to the college visits being made easier. Have you had do you have any thoughts about how or what's what what? How can we facilitate that in any way?
TEXT> So I'm only a sophomore, but I am aware that seniors do get to go to colleges. So it's during the school day, I believe, where they get bused to the colleges and they take a tour. I think that those opportunities for seniors should be branched out to select students from younger grades. Underclassmen.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah. Because you're excited. Yeah. That to keep that energy up. Yeah, absolutely.

[11776-111] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: This is also including something that were out remote. One of them said.
TEXT> I had I had a few move in who were remote. Yeah. Yes. Okay. So one of. The things that they do every. Day. Along with reading  the book for the it's usually about every week that they'll receive a new book to  that. And when I say received, they don't keep the book and we do take them back,  there in the classroom for them to access. But we actually hands. Them the book every week.  And  one of the things that they do is they have daily writing, this daily writing integration we found to be extremely beneficial and really important  for them. You can see here this is the same question from both students. It says describe the key phases in a complete insect life cycle. Include a diagram to support your answer. They learned about incomplete and complete,  life cycles. And they drew the diagram and then they wrote. Now this student  needed some assistance, but was still able to access that knowledge and show  what they knew. So it says, first, an insect is an egg and they have filled in the blanks there.  And the teacher did help them label their drawing as well, their diagram.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: And then over here we have first an insect is an egg. Next it turned to a lava. A lava eats a lot, a lot of food. And they have

[17300-129] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: important to be out in the public just kind of talking to people generally. So again, something that I'm not doing a lot right now where I'm working at the moment because of where we are in the progression of that system and that organization.
TEXT> But here, I think, well, I do go to a lot of like sporting events and things like that because I like to I think that's, you know, we don't we don't always have a lot of opportunities to have fun in, in this line of work. So going to games is one thing that I enjoy. So I like to do that. But I think here it would be important to do that.  But to go to other things, right. Whatever's happening after school concerts,  activities that kids have, things where parents might be present, who would have an opportunity to tell me something or have a conversation with me who aren't going to come to an office hour to tea with Jim, or any of you know, they're not going to send an email. They're not going to show up here tonight, but they might see me on the sideline of a soccer game and have something to say. And if that takes me out of the office for a part of a workday, that doesn't really matter. Because again, I work pretty long hours and emails are always available in the evening, and  there's time for that stuff.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: You know, I tell principals all the time. The people are only available during certain hours. If you're not talking to the people during those hours, you're not principally because

[10993-221] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: is not working and things like that, and it takes us a lot of outreach to do that. So do I. By no means want to give you the impression we think that this will be perfect on the on the fifth. I'm just talking.
TEXT> Yeah. What is the the continued plan for specialist teachers, related service providers, case managers, people of that nature who are doing double duty. They're they're doing hybrid. They're doing kids in person and they're doing,  remote learning as well. And then, you know, trying to juggle the combination of both of those. What is the plan for that? Because I don't know, is that's going to be.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So you you raise one of our more significant points there, which is particularly the secondary level grades six through 12. What are we doing with the full remote kids,

[16477-182] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (sentence onset clipped into neighbori | 2025-04-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Great.
TEXT> So in. Your. Packets you have the coaches quarterly reports from 4 to 2 and 4 to 3. There's a pie graph at the top showing you have to spend their time. Just want to  highlight on that. Basically 70% of their days are spent with teachers and giving instruction, whether that's, doing a classroom observation with them, meeting with them, pushing into the classrooms, if if you add up their their pie chart time, you'll see that the high school has 72% and the little school has 70% for 4 to 3. They're doing very similar tasks at both of those schools, different amounts of meetings with teachers or push in work or or classroom observations, but they end up totaling up to about the same amount of time. Additionally, their work involves some data analysis. And so I'm going to show you some of the the test scores from those buildings.  The middle school coach, Courtney Steele, is also working with fifth grade elementary students creating a Bridge Advanced math program. We were trying to prep kids to eventually  develop into an advanced math class at the middle school.
NEXT> Mike Koski: At this point, there's not enough students for a full class. Looks like it's going to take the form of extra, more advanced math work during their win time or

[10558-193] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2019-10-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: You're not going to get the same level of service. Not even close.
TEXT> No. And I just want to be careful with what you said, because I don't want the community  to be in an outrage about taking kids out of their classroom for services. The typical model is at least this is what most schools are pushing towards is a push in model. So if you have a student that you can go like if I'm working on handwriting in the underlying skills to handwriting and they're doing handwriting in the classroom, then I'm going to go in the classroom and see what they need to be functional in there. And then I'm going to assist with that. If you have kids with sensory, you know, self-regulation, you're not going to go into the classroom to work on self-regulation. You're going to take that student out. But what you're going to work on is going to benefit what they're doing in the classroom so that they can access their curriculum. So I just want to make sure that people aren't thinking, you know, kids are missing services.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to qualify what I said, it's the radical, radical, radical view.

[12180-278] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of these numbers as well, are you can see on that other grid, if you haven't followed that, we report out as needed. We are doing and I think we're, kids are coming back with or on the sixth day when when they're out followed.
TEXT> This is the tracking and what you can see that, that we're proud of.  With this data, you can see the consistency. You can see the spikes, the valleys and the spikes and the trends all the way through.  You see  this latest surge to the right and the numbers, and you're going to see that same graph everywhere, except it's a little bit different,  in the early see, see the ups and the downs. It's just it's a matter of, of degree where the cases are and the students are out and how long that they're out a little bit is in there. The only inverse curve that you see there is right there where it looks like a dipper. That's the early childhood. And again, you have a variation of afternoons, mornings and things like that where that's not,  as predictive. You can see also in the staff tracking. Right. You can see that staff  the same way started out very, very healthy. And everyone, particularly  of the age of staff and everything. Omicron, upper respiratory you're back faster. It's not as severe, but it's but it's  it's going around, but we're still managing very well. And that's, that's kind of that's, that's, that's it on the data that I had.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[9020-231] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: Frank, I think you were waiting.
TEXT> A couple of things. One is I have a suggestion as far as, a needs assessment as far as basically asking kids what they like. The high school is using Navy,  and I would recommend that kids do some of those interest inventories and find out where their aptitudes and interests are through that venue, rather than through asking through a survey.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: Right. It's certainly more accurate, I would assume. Right.

[14875-104] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (addressed on the recording as 'a | 2023-02-01
PREV> Christine Baker: that fleshes out, I think it would be a benefit to have, you know, that fifth grade teacher working alongside the other fifth grade teachers in that approach. So I think for, you know, that's one other benefit, at least for bluff. So that's really.
TEXT> I think our focus remains on relationships  between students, staff and families. And I think there's a lot of  increasing of relationships that can be done earlier with families through through preschool entering. And again,  if you've we used to have Disney art housed a preschool many years ago and starting your day off with the chicken dance, it doesn't get any better than that. And it just enriches everybody in the building.  So it's just that's just a nice addition in in addition to all the other things we talked about. And I think Mr. Romeo has some great things to share.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Well, I think you've covered. A lot. Of things that we talked about. But, given a tough situation that we have, we thought this be one of the better options

[11056-292] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-12-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: people just to think that, it's, you know, we're holding off because by no means are we holding off, whether it be at the saw or at the the elementary schools or middle schools or high school. We're on this as soon as we hear.
TEXT> I just want a second with on it.  Just say  the my daughter was in close contact and had to quarantine for two weeks and got very effective and quick communication.  From the school, got the email from the we got a call from Pat Barry, got an email from the school, nurse. I do have to say that da s contacted me a full week after my daughter was home on quarantine to let me know how that quarantine was supposed to work. So her quarantine was 3 or 4 days from being over by the time they contacted me. So the school was very effective in their communication and letting me know that, you know, it was a Saturday. I mean, I the student was, you know, I think it was from Friday, but, you guys were very quick, you know, Saturday  on your days off,  we're calling, contacting parents. So I appreciate that. And I thank you for that.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: I don't think administrators. Get. Days off.

[8845-193] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey has something. | 2017-01-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Get, size factor, salary adjustment. What is that?
TEXT> They're collective bargaining agreement.  And so in the CAA agreement, the salary is calculated on a base salary and then adjustments for level of education, number of years, experience, building size. So the size factor adjustment is based on the size of the building for which they,  manage. So for instance, the high school is the largest building theoretically largest building. Most students there's a difficulty more most complex. So there's a larger salary for that large larger size factor for that building than for a smaller building.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay.

[12399-184] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member asking about the PRIDE pr | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: Any other questions or comments for this?
TEXT> Just what happens to kids when they get into the middle school?
NEXT> Ben Nester: We have a life skills program at the middle school run by one of our teachers, Sam Bailey. So many of our students, as an example, like in the elementary

[15687-91] Unidentified | SAU 6 administrator presenting the superintendent's personnel nominati | 2024-04-11
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Opposed? Abstentions. Thank you very much for our superintendent report. Tonight we have nomination of positions to the Director of Student Services and the Director of Human Resources. Thank you.
TEXT> Sure. Okay. Just grab the papers. We'd like to  nominate,  for the director of Student services, Michael McCusker. He is? What is his current position?
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: She's the director of she services. Assistant director of student services.

[15585-381] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> Right. We do have a tendency. Data attendance certainly wasn't consistent across the five weeks. We have some students who attended three weeks out of five. We have some students who attended three days out of five days a week.  I was going to correlate those, but it became really complicated.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[9682-490] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (re-elected vice chair [49]; LeClair | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: continue to persist. And what we've seen historically is our achievement gaps between those who are proficient, who are on grade level, who are ready, and those who are not continue to get wider and wider and wider as you go up in the grades.
TEXT> Corey, what percentage of the 5% are  kids who are especially kids or have IEPs or receive interventions other than.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: In kindergarten or district wide?

[9495-545] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: workers. So I guess my question is, are we researching and looking to get some assistance back through the state? I mean, this this it's bizarre. This person is it's just it's not in a union. She's just like a floater. She's not part of.
TEXT> She was created because of a specific need and created to save children. And it speaks for the Claremont School District to step up and acknowledge that we're not like other districts and we have to make it easier. Differences. So I very much appreciate what you're saying. But.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: The state, there are.

[16530-12] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Candace Crawford: appear and the kids did artwork around the word that they had selected, and the art represented the word. It was fantastic. And I was so. I was so proud of the school and the district last night. So I just wanted to say that.
TEXT> Thank you. Can I add to her comments? There were three board members there last night and we were all blown away by the art, the commitment by the art teacher, the students and the families. The place was packed, the parking lot was on overflow. So principal. And the principal? Yes, Mrs. Lewis, they all deserve kudos to all of them.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Any other citizens for citizens comments? Seeing none are we are closest in comments and move on to the student board member report. Hello, Lily. By yourself.

[10694-155] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: Oh.
TEXT> We we all would. Okay. But but most teachers would tell you you you would think most teachers, most teachers aren't excited about a class of eight. They're really not you. You don't have, you don't have the engagement. You don't have the dynamic. There can be a lot of focus on kids when they're always that low. But it's it's it's really not realistic to to have class size that low.
NEXT> Unidentified: So it'll.

[11776-17] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: It's a it's a thorny issue. I mean, it's not no one. Everyone wants opportunities for kids, but it was the overall equity. And that's why we, as I remember, we were going to revisit it in committee. But I mean you can I don't.
TEXT> Meant before. I think with the time frame that we're dealing with, it is fact that they are conditioning for football. How many children are we looking at.
NEXT> Michael: Right now? It's for all of them. Played for the Cardinals last year there. Devoted dedicated kids to to tackle football. Their kids that are going to play it all

[16215-404] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mary Henry: Because and that's when Chris has been working on, actually.
TEXT> It's based on  all the information I have currently in power school for that. The average class size for the sixth grade is 18 students. The average class size for seventh grade, I think is 15, and the average class size for six seventh grade is 18.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Wait a second. The class size is what?

[15722-50] Ms. Chastain | SOCIAL STUDIES TEACHER, Stevens High School, and ADVISOR to the Youth  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ms. Chastain: we get together and we have dinner and have a great time. But dinner can sometimes cost a lot down there, too. It's because the main drag of Concord doesn't have, you know, McDonald's, which God, I don't want to subject them to that anyway.
TEXT> We ate at this great place called vibes.  And we had a great time. But sometimes I have no problem, and I've done it before. I'll take money out of my pocket if a kid can't afford it. And I'm like, I got it. And it's hard for them  because this town, we have a lot of pride. And so. But if I mean, if we had a little backup, I mean, just, you know, if businesses wanted to give us a little bit of money toward that, it would definitely help the program. But,  you know, and if you know, younger kids, if your kids are,  you know, eighth graders or freshmen, encourage them to join the program because,  like I said, I'm losing half the delegation. And we were only at ten this year.  But for Covid, I had got our numbers up to the 20s and and we're we're back down. But so if you know kids that might be interested, send. Them our way.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Miss Crawford, do you, is it Gage and Audrey? Aubrey? Do you talk? Do you have the opportunity to talk to, like, freshman kids? To encourage them to participate?

[16982-453] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Angel, if you want to add on to some more things to, there are some needs that we found that were happening within the district that possibly could be, alleviated potentially with this position to and you want to add on to more on transportation.
TEXT> Right now we're paying a as. As Mr. Madden spoke at the last meeting,  $90,000 a year to pick up a homeless student that cost. Yeah, we are splitting the cost, but, that would alleviate  some of that need.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So this individual would be certified to drive our 15 passenger van? Yes, sure. Sorry. This, whoever would take this position or the position would include being able to be

[14681-443] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Frank, first' [198] -> [199 | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: they know what our counselors really know. The students. They they do. Our teachers do, our administrators do. I don't want to give a but it's with our demographic and the transient nature of our demographic and, and some of the impacts. It's it's hard.
TEXT> I've had students enroll in school and stay as shorter period as one day and then drop out. That was in Newport and a student enrolled from the mountain district. She attended one day, dropped out, and she was our dropout. Yeah.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Anything further on? Restructure. All right. Moving on to item number four, which we've gone over. It's the schedule. High school? Yes.

[9496-594] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed as 'Pat', 'Pat Barry', 'Doct | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: Can you can you just touch on the crisis counselor?
TEXT> Absolutely. So the crisis counselors, we have two of them this year, creating one full time position we've contracted for since I've been at Stevens. So for years now with Monadnock Mountain View for their services. They are, as the name implies, crisis counselors, students who are, saying that they are intending self-harm, students who are in crisis, students who are in family crisis, whose parents are on their way to becoming incarcerated, students who come into school and are paralyzed by what is going on at home. Utilize our crisis counselors. They have the background, the training to deal with students who are in emotional crisis and who cannot learn because of their state of mind. They're very different kind of training and certification than our school counselors have.  So, it does not overlap at all with what our social worker does, and it does not overlap with the training and the expertise and the ability that our school counselors have to deal with those kinds of emotional crises, where without them, students would need to be immediately referred to West Central and West central is suffering staff shortages.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: They used to be in every week on our SS team meetings and have representation there. We have not had a representative in our students support team meetings at all

[11175-130] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Richard Seaman: in the number of paraprofessionals. And Ben can speak in great detail on this to try and bring it down from, I think, a high of approximately 100 paraprofessionals down into a number closer to 60, or within the mid 60s, mid 60 to 70.
TEXT> This is a moving target depending on children that we have and kiddos that we have that require paraprofessionals as part of their individual education program, their IEP we have in the budget, the paraprofessionals we know we need, and we had built into it an additional nine currently unallocated positions. We know we're going to have additional kiddos come into the in in into the district. And this is in effect, putting that into place, so that we have those those nine, nine positions, if and most likely when they will be needed out of district costs are rather significant increase. What's interesting here is that the elementary level, we've seen it go down really almost zero on out placements, and that's a result of the programs that had already been put into place. However, some of the kiddos from elementary have moved to the high school, so we're seeing their, placement expenses now being categorized within the middle school and the high school. You can see saw a very significant increase we did over the course of the summer have two kiddos within our district, that need to be out, that need to be put into a residential program, which was an anticipated $500,000 cost for those two students.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: And again, everyone, all kiddos within New Hampshire are guaranteed a free and adequate education, and this is a part of what is required to provide them with their adequate

[9328-111] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: a reflection and what's going what's going to be developing from this with the municipality, with the leaders, the mayor and the chief of, of the chief of police were at the meeting this morning at the Moody building where we talked about tomorrow night.
TEXT> This is not going to be a closed shop. It may start small with a small group, but that information of what's occurring is going to be expanded and publicized, and we anticipate that more will become involved as we create this plan together. You know, the one thing I want to share with you that, talks not about adults, doesn't talk about teachers, doesn't talk about parents. I think it talks about about all of us. And it has to do  with two  musical performances.  So Pacific in the 1950s had a song, a lyric. You've got to be carefully taught, Rodgers and Hammerstein. You've got to be taught to hate and fear. You've got to be taught from year to year. It's got to be drummed into your dear little ear. You've got to be carefully taught. And what that song is talking about is that the conduct of, of children or the conduct of adults is not genetics. And I'm not pointing my finger to anyone or pointing my finger at parent the teachers saying this, we really have to point our fingers at ourselves.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And so how we how we go forward with this is an opportunity to make meaningful change over time and even recently, into the woods, children will listen. Careful the

[16070-74] Arlene Hawkins | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER; also CHAIR of the SAU 6 joint board and | 2024-10-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: feel a little bit of that. We're not missing the mark in regards to at least that, you know, the high school level, I can only speak from being there is that we're and we're responding to our environment and what we need to see.
TEXT> And I found the student, reflection on the restorative justice, on the scheduling. It really indicates that they're thoughtful young adults who are reflecting and articulating what their environment is. It was very impressive. I thought.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, they were very impressive. And I think, you know, Michael, really agree that that's pretty much the population of the students we get there. That's those are the students

[9470-435] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: Guess in mine.
TEXT> Would be. So what that is, is that's that's paying kids to paying for kids to take night school.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And that's a.

[16982-500] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Scott Maple: about, who just shuts down to everybody. And I was able to make that that connection with her. And, you know, at least get her through the front doors onto, onto a better path than what she was on so that she gets that education.
TEXT> So I just want to say a couple words for Scott. And just kind of the reality of the situation. Without a truancy. And I'm actually just going to talk just the position for a minute, and then I'll talk about you without a truancy officer position. My hands are tied as a principal when it comes to truancy. It just is. Maybe, if the timing works out and I don't have a couple of kids in crisis, I can get a social worker to go out and do a home visit. Maybe they're willing to do it. It's just the timing of it. When you have significant truancy and you go to do a chin's with the child, the needs of service, what's going to happen is, you file with DC if and they're going to say, what have you done? And you can talk about the conferences that you've had with the teachers, and you could talk about the conferences you've had with the parents, and you can talk about having the parents come in. But if you didn't have someone go to the house, they will not follow through with it. Right. It just it stops. What I like my my ability to go outside of the building as an administrator is incredibly limited.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Right? That that is. And I'm okay. And I will say that is not for lack of trying. Courtney Porter has made a, home visits. I call her up. She's

[14727-64] William Lupini | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent (uncertain spel | 2022-11-16
PREV> William Lupini: which state law does allow. And it really helps circumvent some of the challenges with students missing out on elections and those kinds of things when they choose to go to the career and tech center. We just think that that's a very valuable resource.
TEXT> And we know, you know that. We know you have a task force looking at that.  And wanted to make sure we commented on it. The second area is the integration of 1 to 1 devices. We know that's that's something you've been working on. We we think that a really important aspect of that type of program are technology integration specialists, because teachers are not experts. Teachers are experts in their curriculum area. They are not experts in how to use it. How  how those devices can benefit their curriculum area.  And so they need help with that. And so people who understand how to take curriculum and use these devices to enhance the learning for kids, they're very, very important. And we both believe it's really critical that those those integration specialists are under the supervision of the assistant superintendent for Curriculum and Instruction and those curriculum specialists that you have in place, not not technology, because they're not they're not they're about the technology. They're about the integration of the curriculum using those devices. A third area, special education, again, one of our models,  told us that they worry less about  about having people at the building level who are. The question I always ask in these kinds of situations is, you know, who's the person who sits at an IEP meeting at the table, who has the authority to spend dollars?
NEXT> William Lupini: And I have an old rule of thumb, which is that there are too many people that have that responsibility throughout the district, that it's harder to train them. It's

[8648-270] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: I believe, I believe, Bret, that.
TEXT> I totally agree with what you're saying. We're not there yet, but that not that doesn't mean we're going to just take it easy. And maybe a decade from now, I think it's going to be important, though, that the board have a presentation on ready in the near future, because that will address part of what your concern is. But the expectation is these gaps you're talking about are going to be standing out more with the frequent assessments and then how we respond to those and interventions. These gaps are going to start decreasing. It won't be a perfect world, but what you're talking about, as you described it, as  that child passes through that gap widens.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: That's my.

[15947-63] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Policy subcommittee. CHAIR | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Gillen. Now I have two questions. So with the accommodations, are.
TEXT> The students expected to somehow,  achieve a point where they don't need a 504? Is that is that an expectation for some, at least some students?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Five.

[38822-205] Arlene Hawkins | Ward 3 resident, 592 Redwater Brook Road; citizens' comments (elected  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mike Koski: And next meeting I believe is when we'll have some curriculum information for you. It's happening in the background. It's not being neglected.
TEXT> Arlene Hawkins, Ward 3592 Redwater Brook road.  I've read the organization study report that was commissioned by the SEO, and that report reinforced our problem. And it's been stated here about high teacher turnover. A positive first step toward reversing this trend is that new contract, this board negotiated with our teachers. Perhaps the board would look at a consistent salary increase for the central office administrators, with the teachers to align with them. That's my first point. A second positive step is the move to, as stated in the report, greater clarification, consistency, and efficiency in the area of human resources throughout the district. I think that's great that that's being addressed. And while there certainly is a need to ease the tax burden on the Claremont residence, does the reduction in the educational budget and the restructuring in this manner and in the short time, and help our school district? I heard from the administrators, and I think it's great that you guys are all here,  our parent concerns being heard about this new restructuring. Are we maintaining our commitment to our staff and the commitment to our schools by rushing into this? The physical classrooms that I heard are  crowded, and if we're increasing class sizes, will students have opportunities to move around within their own classroom?
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And have we looked at certifications for teachers, specifically middle school, moving into the high school, and how how is that impacted? All of this requires time to listen, to

[15443-227] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; finance subcommittee member — named pre | 2023-11-30
PREV> Melissa Lewis: Name of. The act is well, as the number of kiddos.
TEXT> So that there's been an increase of kids.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: For Disney. There's been a significant increase. Yes.

[8407-315] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: So what.
TEXT> Can we make out of district placement generally means the child,  a student who has, a certain need, oftentimes  a explained in the individual education program, the IEP, and that the school district in the perfect world, we would have the resources or the staff to successfully address those needs. If we don't, it generally is the best approach is to have the child go to another area, another school where they have the staffing. In some cases, it's a specialized school. It's expensive. However, it is not. We cannot say, well, you're going to stay here until we,  make some changes. Are you going to stay here? You have to honor the individual education program. We do evaluate. We do make decisions based on some assessments to be sure that we agree with the sending schools assessment, but where you are legally obligated to continue those services until such time.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So an IEP that's generated out of Newport, we then eat the cost. If they move here. It's basically what you're saying.

[9496-645] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Very honest. Great.
TEXT> Because here's my concern is, is that you can go to  you can have  that person help that one time. And it's good that that that case was there and that you had that,  you know, that wraparound for that particular person.  However, there's also how many children in your school.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: 546.

[15531-13] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6, six days into the job - the  | 2024-01-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: a 114108104. So the overall you're averaging the average teacher, the, the average students at teachers at MSC in a year, you're up a little past 100, but you got the you got some of the areas like, like PE you have 230, 249 students.
TEXT> So I know the numbers before were on the lower side. It was showing 65 and 70 for the year. But those previous days, after looking at it and just over the past, I think it's my second full day, is that we're able to take a look at the, the actuals in regards to that. And so the, the UA numbers are inflated because they see students on a cycle. So at any given quarter workloads are same for UA in content area teachers. However, students rotate through UA classes, so it appears as though the UA workload is higher button actuality. They just see more students over the school year because they rotate UAS all content classes with the exceptions of this year's sixth grade science and civics because the middle school were short on teachers are year long, and then you have the sixth grade change every 22 days. So they get to experience all the UA offerings, and seventh and eighth graders change the was every quarterly. I think that's pretty accurate. I was meeting with the principal talking to him earlier. So I just wanted to, you know, bring that to the board's attention, that the number is a little different than you initially had.  It's not an easy report to run.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So, I mean, if you don't know, you can look at the quarters the way it's set up as it's a year long thing. But those are the updated numbers

[9950-485] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah.
TEXT> I would he pointed at me, assuming that there was some flexibility in scheduling the community engagement leadership team I'd be interested in.  Right. However, I have children that,
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I do that. That's why I volunteer for the curriculum council.

[12353-99] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (calls the meeting to order [3] and runs the off | 2022-04-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Claremont meeting that Saturday to decide the budget in order to for for that to happen, they have to have half of the registered voters, of which they have 565 two after three two, 183 have to attend for that to to count either way.
TEXT> And there's a lot of grass. As I hear it, grassroots movements in the town and things like that. I put a bunch of links to articles  for folks in those who be shared on the web as well.  Croydon has reached out. They sent a formal letter  to me.  Shortly, I think it was April 11th  to,  to meet and  talk and I,  to meet and talk about potential  tuition arrangements,  giving their situation. They have  currently they have a tuition agreement  with Newport serving as an anchor school. And I'll talk about,  talk about it now, but Anchor School is a school where you,  they they very similar to Goshen, which are certainly we all were a part of that over the last year and a half with the Goshen tuition agreement that we have with all both saw six Unity and Claremont,  where we have an arrangement where we will take their students in. They you need an anchor school that you can have  all the way through high school, and also after high school, in case of special needs where you were, you were guaranteed fate. And those are conditions regulated by New Hampshire. And we have to have those things in there. So Corydon currently has a tuition agreement as an anchor school with Newport through the end of next year.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Claremont Unity have already set our two the tuition rates for 2023. That that I will talk about in a minute. And Richard has those those numbers we'll talk about.

[11510-60] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: power school, not to mention then understanding what it is that they're looking at. A student can literally and I've seen it happen almost daily with our current system have a WDA proficient with distinction, the highest grade that they can get up on today.
TEXT> And I can go into power school tomorrow,  and teachers will have put in a variety of assessments, and that can go down to an SBP in 24 hours, substantially below proficient in the system with 100.100 point scale and with an A, B, C, d, that gradation is more gradual.  So that you can see if, if this was an EKG. All right. In what we're proposing, the grades would look like this. Currently on any given day, if you were to print out a child's grades over a course of a month, it's probably going to look like this. It's going to look like somebody's in cardiac arrest. So,  what we're what we're proposing is a way of going back to the traditional reporting out system while holding on to all the work and honoring the work  of who we are as a competency based district, and not changing that piece of it so that parents are better able to communicate with teachers and vice versa. Students have a better understanding of where they are in their class and what needs to be done. And with this goes,  we anticipate better communication, things like. And that'll be one of the charts that we show. Things like athletic eligibility,  are going to be much easier to pinpoint and attack and understand,  and remediate with the with this kind of a reporting out system.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And I'm sure Prescott will have something to say. I'm sure he has an opinion as a student, but we have heard this from students and parents across the board,

[10704-144] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: time today to have a faculty meeting with all the elementary teachers, which we did have today, and again, got great feedback, a great feedback along the way. Set up anonymous sounding boards so that we could gather everything from staff as quickly as possible.
TEXT> This is a great forum to talk about, things that would need to be improved, improved upon, or or proven right out with actual bus routes, with actual scatter grams of  of impact to families, with multiple students. All those things we have to vet. And that's that's exactly why we slowed down right now. And it's just not the time to do it. Okay. So we need to vet all those things.
NEXT> Rod Beaton: Okay. So that all sounds great. My concern is just, again, that it seemed like if there hadn't been the feedback and the pushback over the past week from the

[11793-290] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I got Josh in the nick' [522] t | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: And I mentioned.
TEXT> He had mentioned that they would get their students here. So yeah, I mean I don't think it's going to be an issue that.
NEXT> Sean: I wasn't here last week or two weeks ago. And this is a non program. So it wouldn't be an issue for this particular case. One of the other things

[11510-69] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: It's what.
TEXT> I guess it's synonymous with what we used to call standards.  And so the learning targets are those things that we need to check off to make sure that the students know them and are able to do these things underneath those bigger arch of competencies.
NEXT> Unidentified: It can be a paper, it can be presentation.

[12353-561] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (calls the meeting to order [3] and runs the off | 2022-04-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: So right now we don't have any.
TEXT> We won't we don't we don't have exposure. We have two kids now paid already that will close out. We don't have kids.  If you do it to a business example, is this going to be a receivership type of situation? Are you only going to get some of your, you know, so that that's what people don't know yet. But that's what we wanted to put on your radar to watch.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And maybe, maybe this was embedded in Steve's question and I missed it. But, I guess do we have a right of refusal?

[8258-249] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Sam: that they could come? Because we're all early childhood professionals. We have spaces in our program. What would the cost be to maybe allocate some of those services for maybe some of the less severe children that might need that more on site specialized care.
TEXT> That that if I may respond, according to the Department of Education, one has to have a teacher's degree and and a licensure and special education. If you don't have a teacher's degree and a licensure and special education, you can't mix. Take those identified children and blend them into a early childhood education program.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[12366-51] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: These reimbursable to, are these reimbursed by Medicaid? They're not embarrassed.
TEXT> These would not be certainly not identified kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: They would be serving non-identical.

[10139-12] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (opens the meeting [0-3], runs agenda, re | 2018-12-05
PREV> Jason Benware: I move that we approve the minutes of October 30th, 2018 second.
TEXT> Further discussion or corrections on those minutes. Hearing none. All those in favor? I opposed. Okay. We have  Mr. Jesse for all of us tonight with the student reps report.
NEXT> Jesse: Thank you. Before I begin, I'd just like to note that I did update this report before we came, before I came to the meeting, like late this afternoon. So

[16409-24] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1; former School Board member | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> And Patrick Adrian, Ward one. I really like to get my comments out of the way so I can just listen.  I'm going to take a different spin. You know, I'll let there will be plenty of people speak to the virtues of this policy.  I, I've been really bothered by the process. Why is it that this policy. And I was on the board, and I found it offensive that the approach being taken is removal. You have a list of policies that you're looking at that's either review or you had emergency reading. Why is this one removal? Why not review?  I you know, I agree, and I was,  Frank and I were on the board that passed this policy back in 2016. Looking at it again today. Yeah, there's probably things that, whether now  or in the future that it probably need, you know, would be good to sit down and look at it with an attorney and, and, and get kind of the facts about are there concerns. Are there language areas that need to be fixed. I agree with the board chair. I like that the board chair said to the Valley News the fact that would like to kind of find a policy, you know, find a common ground policy that, you know, really provides the same kind of supports and protections for students, yet in a way that, you know, don't have to worry about kind of, you know, legal liabilities.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: You know, if this is said review, I don't think there would have been such a backlash just putting removal on. I don't feel comfortable with the idea of removing

[9357-58] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Unidentified: It would be, I think, kind of compelling because I think some people would be saying, why is Clermont doing that? But three sounds like a or four sounds like a lot of kids.
TEXT> Talking about 36 kids a year in a student body of 1800, roughly. That's what percentage, I don't know, but I.
NEXT> Unidentified: Think it's 36 kids in an age group, though not of right. It's not all the kids. It's 36 kids within an age specific age group, which is different than

[17159-11] Wayne Hemingway | State Representative, Sullivan District 6; citizen commenter, Ward 1 ( | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there anybody who would like to come to this vote to speak to this article or.
TEXT> Thank you, Madam Chair. Wayne Hemingway, Ward one state rep. I'm also a resident of Claremont. I have a child in the school district.  So I feel the pain. Let me just set the tone. I am adamantly for open enrollment. As we go through it. So you're you're on the article. If HB 751 passes, that is going to not only void your article because as it states, you can limit the amount of people that you can't limit. You have criteria that you can bring students in on. You can't you can deny them for, truancy behavior and  a few things like that, but you can't deny them for their, their special  anything that they need specialty wise or anything like that. Medical wise, you can not restrict any student from leaving. And that's explicit in that bill. You cannot exclude anyone from leaving. So therefore, with Mr. Madden's comment the other day about, we're holding them hostage. This bill removes that jail and allows them to leave. So why is this a good bill, if I may? Okay. One, it creates a bit of competition. Claremont needs to look at revising how they're doing academics and and find out what they need to do to be better. That's going to bring the people in. Our sports programs for Claremont are very top notch.
NEXT> Wayne Hemingway: Our soccer. Basketball, baseball, softball, all those, you know, sports are what's going to bring some people in. There is a provision in the bill also that says you can't

[11825-573] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Yes' when Heather Whitney is c | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Incentivizing the wider community.
TEXT> Incentivizing the  I would incentivize adults over children.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[14595-42] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: This is off topic, but did we, As usual. Did we get any data at all about the summer program and the growth data?
TEXT> I have all that data, so I. Yeah, so I went through all that summer day. So the, the team of of teachers, they did an amazing job. I don't have that. Right. One second I'll find it. So there it is. Perfect. All right. So they, they,  they took attendance for every single room every single day. And you also had when people could sign up for the summer program. There were some weeks,  where people would sign up, sometimes for the whole summer, but then they would go away for a week and the other. So they had to keep meticulous notes about,  drop off pickup, other types of things. They also blended the extended year programs.  They wanted to make sure that the students was,  special needs for extended day. Also could join up with the social activities, the wonderful stuff with the  with the community center and the other activities. So we manage that. So I had to go through every all five weeks, each cohort of kids all the way through, they kept data. It wasn't a power, wasn't like my powers. Cool stuff in the year that I could pull. But it was it. It took a little bit to go through it, but I'm glad I did. So you could see  the average all the way through. It was  for the first week there.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: On the screen.

[14847-354] Michael Tempesta |  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: in when things were good in 2019, in the fall, when we had the governor's one time money there, we created some some funds, including, tuition reserves and, and the like. So that that was very important to do that. And we still have that.
TEXT> So that that is where it's coming from straight up. It's not without sacrifice. It's not without looking for things that we have extra. But that is why  with really a short turnaround, we can say with confidence there's enough money in there to do that because we have that buffer. Okay. I honestly don't think we would be as confident if we didn't have that, to be completely honest with you. But that's that's where we're targeting right now. We still have a ways to go. We also have,  months in which to do that. But some of some of those things that we mentioned in the meeting prior to this one, I just want to rest. Sure. I've had some community outreach on those items. We've been looking closely at that,  and we want to make sure that we're not, that we're not switching models when we have other ways to get there that are proven to serve our most vulnerable students. And we know the more you intervene at an early level, the more you  save for the full run, particularly.  And I know that it's one of the reasons that attracted me to this town was  during the interview process. I saw  Jason Ben where  presenting the budget to the board about  having the foresight to look for, all kinds of interventions, sped programing and very progressive things similar to what I was doing in the place where I came from.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And, and I think you always have to have that first and foremost in a I'm, I'm confident in those areas that we're looking at right now. So.

[10044-98] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 ('Thanks, Mike' [126], 'Michael' [128] a | 2018-10-03
PREV> Carolyn Towle: What did you say. Cornish.
TEXT> Well Cornish sent students to Windsor and Hartford. So when I used to do the Cornish budget where they were in there. Okay, Jason.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So at a 4% increase, we're we're about $800 cheaper than Fall Mountain would. Fall mountain would about $800 more than us at if we increase.

[11390-9] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: for extra time planning and access for for everyone. We're excited about that. We have still looking at our special ed programing and our, our, our different, supports that we have within the district and some programs that we've started to bring more students back.
TEXT> And  we're going to look at the governance structure. And I've  had the pleasure of  talking to our new board members this week, just like I did with the existing board members when I came on board. And,  we we talked about,  you know, many things, but also  how we were talking,  what we were thinking about the governance structure and having school  councils and maybe doing some of those things, just like we visited. We had some great visits  in person  with the board  during Covid and talking to teachers and things like that. So that's another thing that we're looking forward to.  Next slide please, Mr. Small. And  and this slide also  shows  kind of where we are today and what we have to do  with our expectation of of coming back.  With more people in person for the last  term beginning on April 12th. And basically what you're looking at,  folks at home, is the  ratios of of students who are in person  per school and  also throughout the district and who is remote. And  we are almost 80%  dead on  in person. And we have been since February 1st.  And that's five days a week  all across the district, elementary, middle and high.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You can see the exact percentages there. We started to, working with the administrative team. We're looking at what it will take to have as many students back as possible,

[16011-42] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (appointment formally announced at th | 2024-09-12
PREV> Chris Pratt: coming and going as well. And so I think they also worked on the cameras as well. So the Dow office is now much more secure in regards to people coming and going into the building where we have buzzers, we can buzz people in.
TEXT> We have cameras on the door. So the front door, I think Chelsea's desk off to the side has aisle access, and we just can use the intercom and the speaker, just like in schools. Now, we didn't have that before,  so that was a concern of mine, knowing that the SEC office was not as secure as the schools. And that should have been, sent out a community survey. I think it was the end of last week, and I sent that out through the the website that we're starting to move forward. Not there yet, but I'm trying to get myself to understand it and know it. So I sent a survey out to to parents last week in regards to just one question. It was how satisfied are you with the overall quality of education your child is receiving an SO6, so responses are coming in and it was just and I'll have that my next report of working on. And by then we'll should have some pretty good data in regards to  what people who took the poll, their perceptions are.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: What did you say? You send it to parents WhatsApp. Who did you say you sent it to? Parents.

[16896-203] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: It has to be a medical issue.
TEXT> Service would be the counseling. And right now we and next year we could look at restructuring if we have, you know, if we have a director student services, I can maybe and I'm credentialed I can pick up some of the caseload. We could have time for those those school psychologists to do some counseling and those services to get those.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Yes. So so it's not just whether they're credentialed. It's the. Type of service that come in. To deliver.

[15451-939] Frank Sprague | Chair, Claremont School Board Finance Committee; Vice Chair, Claremont | 2023-12-18
PREV> Mary Henry: On some things, but we're under on others, so it's not in some spots we're over and some spots were under.
TEXT> So so somebody give an example of, of nice to have some must haves. So we, we must have a special ed program for preschool kids. Having the model kids involved is a nice to have. I mean, it is I mean, this is an example I.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thought you just said you had needed you had to have.

[17300-63] Unidentified audience member — addressed as "Doctor" | Audience questioner the chair recognizes as "Yes, doctor." (54:10) — t | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes. Thank you for.
TEXT> Being here. It's been great to listen to you and get your views. I have a little. Bit of. An essay question for you. Sometimes in the discourse in town, there's a. Sort of a reductionist argument that says, well, look, it's simple. We pay this much, we spend this much per kid on average, and look where we're ranked and look at in particular our scores. So scores come up a lot, and they're used as sort of a very strong argument for how bad things are. And they're going down and kind of to a, to make it sound like the schools are completely failing based on the score. So my question, how do you think about scores as part of what a school system should be measured by, and is increasing scores in explicit goal or a byproduct in the way you think, etc.? Expand the question issue with.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So. So the last part first my personal belief what what motivates me increases in quantitative student achievement levels. All right. Byproduct of doing the right things. That's what I

[17046-198] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I did not think this as I started to watch it, but as I'm watching it, I'm thinking the impact on our community. I'm thinking also, school model is a lot of planning, a lot of changes, a lot of requirements. Again, time our resources.
TEXT> I just would like to know financially what would be the impact of keeping that model we do have.  While it's not ideal, I love interventionist, but I'm. I've said what I have to say about that. The second question I had and I had asked this previously, what is the differential cost at the preschool level between the way we're providing services now versus putting our preschool program in the building, which I do support, but I would like to know again, what is the financial difference? Right now we're providing services to kids who are identified. They're getting services, hopefully all of them, but then creating another program. What would the difference of cost would that be? Does that make sense?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[15205-146] Kevin Tyson | Applicant for the vacant Claremont School Board seat; Ward 2 — self-id | 2023-07-19
PREV> Kevin Tyson: for a common agreement in terms of perspectives. I have been the victim of racial discrimination in employment, housing, and my wife and I have been the victims of racial violence. As a result, I am immune to so-called microaggressions I grant the entire world.
TEXT> I, I, I grant the entire world free rein to microaggressions against me, to their heart's content. I would rather have unpleasant, uncooperative, bloviating, die hard microaggressions self-identify early in the process so that I can appropriately adjust my behavior to ensure the success of the mission. For the first question, how would you build the trust requisite for impassioned, non divisive debate? I would do the same thing I've done in interviewing candidates for state level and local offices. I will ask probing questions. Listen here, analyze and learn from what? Learn from what others say. I experienced this very my interview with Frank which improved my understanding of proper pupil spending. I will also endeavor to leave my racial and ethnic baggage at home. A demonstration of this is my interview with Arlene. We share a history of racial violence dating back to the 1968 New York City school strike.  If you're unfamiliar with this just capsule. This strike pitted predominantly black parents against the teachers union, which coincidentally had many Jews in the membership and leadership. At one point, Sunny Carson, a leader of the parent on the parents side of the issue, was publicly accused of anti-Semitism. During an interview, he replied, that's absolutely absurd. Anti-Semitism. And so that you don't ask the question, I'm anti-white, don't limit my aunties to just one group of people.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: This guy.

[9928-145] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 ('what you brought last time Corey' [2 | 2018-07-26
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Just don't go earlier.
TEXT> So  what I will do is I will email the unity for what I already communicate with Sarah, but I'll email a unity. Board just  for date options.  And then unity. Will raise schedule so that they can also attend. So both boards will be represented  on the 14th in Newport. And so that went to that was emailed to all of the staff and students in Sussex. I also  in sent it to the Chamber of Commerce. They will be including it in their distribution list. And the city of Claremont has a distribution list, and they will have it in their  distribution list as well. So getting the word out on that, and I believe  I can confirm this. And I know Patrick or Grady, for instance, is watching tonight, but I believe a press release was done by Newport  on it, but I can.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Just.

[11056-32] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board (Stevens High School) | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Are there other citizens with comments? Jeff, do you see any okay. Seeing none. I'll close citizens comments but that was loud over the microphone. Sorry everybody that's listening. Student report Prescott.
TEXT> For you. And we'll also try and get it online, along with the other information after the end so that the public can see it as well. But the culinary made and delivered 60 pies for Thanksgiving dinners, despite being remote on Monday and Tuesday before Thanksgiving. The tech center teachers and staff stopped in to make it happen. And Mr. Pope's engineering class helped make 3D wedges and connectors needed for the cafeteria field projects. The class really took the time to examine and make the pieces stronger and more supportive. For Stephen's high school. A big congratulations to the quiz bowl team for qualifying for the New Hampshire PBS Granite State Challenge. The show is going to be taped in January  and will be on the network in the weeks following. Stevens Icicle also held their annual I Apply day in conjunction with the New Hampshire Higher Education Assistance Foundation, or was a free to apply to all two and four year schools in New Hampshire. And total we had 24 students submit 51 applications in both in-person and virtual. Students participated. And then the as a B career expectation test is going to be given to juniors and seniors  in the upcoming December 9th. Actually,  and if you want to have more information and can read the full email, Mr. Curran at our current at six.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Org for Claremont Middle School. Congratulations to the students of the month for grade six. It's Mason Harford, Olivia Bella Staines and Olivia Sun for grade seven, it's Trevor Adams,

[8433-281] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Frank Sprague. Yes.' in the no | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brent Ferland: Question for you, Chris.
TEXT> Chris, can I ask a question? Let's talk about those eight students. Yeah. Before that, that four in the four. So I'm thinking of a mike Mattos presentation I saw once. And I think you were with me when we saw it. And so I'm thinking of eight students now. I'm thinking that they probably all have eight different concerns. These eight students would not be sitting in a classroom with a teacher. Probably.
NEXT> Chris: Probably.

[9442-122] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: properly. But walk me through. You have the first student that talked about the culinary piece of it, an L, versus having her attend the culinary program at the tech center. What's what's the thought process that goes into that to give them the right.
TEXT> Sure. So so in that particular case, we'll use Clara as the example. She came to me and she said she had actually already taken some of our cuisine courses that we offer at the high school and said, yeah, those are great. But she said, I really want to specialize in pastry pastry chef and that. And she said, yeah, I don't want the full aspect of the culinary program, you know? And and in the other thing was she's like, I just want to know if this is my interest. So I'm not sure I want to go into a full fledged course. Right. And then I have to commit to the whole semester. So is there a way that I can earn credit and try something out and connect it to some competencies and learning targets that we have? And that's that's how the conversation started, because I certainly say to kids when they arrive to me about the yellows,  okay, well, we have this course. Are you aware of this course? You know, this is what this course is about. Oftentimes I will set up a meeting with myself, the student, the teacher of that course to talk and say, is this something that we can work, not work?
NEXT> Christine Downing: But again, it really goes back to driven. What's your need? What's your interest? What's your motivation to want to do this learning and capture it. Can we do it

[16776-92] Karen Duport | Public commenter, Ward 1; Claremont Middle School teacher (as announce | 2025-08-20
PREV> Unidentified: We're getting the answers to any questions.
TEXT> Hi.  This was not planned. My name is Karen Duport. I'm from Ward one. And I want to thank the school board for your time and dedication to all this.  I have been a teacher at CMS for. 25 years. And I'm close to retirement, but was hoping to stick around a few more years to make it to full retirement. I also live. Here. So I'm a homeowner. And. We've lived here since 1997. My husband is originally from here and my adult sons both live here as well  with their wives and their children. My sons were three sport athletes who proudly graduated from Stevens. One of them still pours his heart out as the head football coach here at Stevens.
NEXT> Unidentified: Good job.

[9907-65] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mike, are we doing a superinten | 2018-07-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: service at the same time. And what would the staffing model look like if we reduce the to if we added that classroom? So what we did is we added that we came up with a plan to add a level two classroom as well.
TEXT> Again, with six kids, the cost of per day on the on the level, on that level of student is $285. So you see up top the the cost of ordnance on that was 300,000 302,006 70. The cost to have that room because because of the fact that we only need one special ed teacher, two mental health workers, we don't need a charge mental health worker, and we don't need a social worker. The admin fee was cut in half of that room. So, so so the cost of that room becomes 117,635. And that's compared to 302 670. Cost of ordnance gives us another $185,000 of cost of ordnance or savings. So so what we're looking at right now is a is a program that could possibly avoid costs of $385,000. How much that's going to be savings? Well, I think we've identified some students that we can bring back right away. I think we're identifying some students that we can maybe bring back during the year. I think that we can avoid sending kids out of district because, like Mike said, if they're being educated at the school here, they're much more likely to go back into the mainstream once they start getting on that bus and riding over the Brattleboro.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: They don't go half the time because they don't like the bus ride or whatever the case may be. This is going to be a much better education for the

[17373-269] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (Policy, Curriculum and Finance subcommittees; ret | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: So the motion on the go ahead.
TEXT> Just a motion. No your numbers. Threw me off. A little bit now. So you just said we have 110,000 for one student for McKinney Vento. Yes, but your total for special ed is 241. So that's  that's what was.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Two. Hundred and 41 was specifically identified in the budget. Okay. But see, what's happening is, is in that 1,730,000 is special education costs that are not broken out.

[8258-86] Unidentified | Student representative to the board (name not stated on this recording | 2016-03-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Opposed. Abstentions. Okay, we'll move into the student representatives report.
TEXT> Today, Wednesday 16th. Three students Jake Lapointe, Chandler Zullo and Josh Sandy competed with students from Laconian Rochester and Skills USA and H residential plumbing contest. The contest consisted of a written general knowledge test in the building of a small plumbing system from blueprints and instructions designed by the plumbing, heating, Cooling Contractors Association for apprentice plumbers. The winner of this contest will be afforded the opportunity to represent the state at the National Skills Conference in Louisville, Kentucky, June 22nd to the 26th. Our local program has won several of these contests and plays as high as third nationally, with the bronze medal winner. The judges for the contest are former instructor and master plumber Jerry Murphy from Laconia, former student and master plumber Steve from B, a former student and past winner Kyle Hamill of Irving and Craft Committee chair Master Plumbers Bernie Furlan and former student master plumber Greg Stapleton of GPS, AC. As you can see, these events organizations receives great support from local businesses. Materials for the contest are paid for by skills and age, and were sold to a local program at less than supplier caused by granite Group in white River junction, Vermont for saving over $1,000. On Friday, March 18th, instructor Pete Ferland will be taking the SHSSRVRTC students Margaret Millen and Dylan Kemp to see Code School of Technology to compete in building construction.
NEXT> Unidentified: On Wednesday, March 16th, Santo Lampa will be taking Angela Woods and to compete in baking at Nashua North. And on Friday, he will be assisting the preparation for Hot

[8380-442] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Chris Irish: school, but she was able to go to classes at 230 or 3 when they were offered. So if you want it, you said something earlier that is 100% true. If the student has the support group and the drive what they want is available.
TEXT> It may not be the same flavor today as it is. Tomorrow was yesterday, but it's there if they want it bad enough. But what she touched on most everything she said is far as who we should be talking to, who we should be worrying with when we make decisions is 100% true. The missing link to that piece is we need to wait until we have the data to talk to them about. I mean, when this decision was initially made, it was made on a little bit of data and a lot of assumptions and a lot of hope. The next decision needs to be made on data, but we have to go through the process to collect that data. We have a bunch of opinions right now, both for and against, but they're just that there's opinion. There's no data that says this is working and there's no data that says it isn't working. So we need to give it the time to have the data. And then we have that conversation with the teachers, the instructors, the students, the board, whoever. And we have the data say it's working. It's not working. But to stop it now, just because we don't like it and we want to resist change it.
NEXT> Chris Irish: We have an opinion one way or the other. That to me is shortsighted as all get it. We just don't know what we don't know. We we suffer from

[8873-79] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Barry: 'as Corey was saying' [215] ab | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Schools.
TEXT> All three elementary schools that are hired to support students with behavioral challenges. And so they're not they're not officially behavior specialists positions. They may have a behavioral specialist background or license, but they are hired as a paraprofessional to support behaviors, as opposed to a special education paraprofessional to support specific learning disabilities or things of that nature. This is those three positions are regular education paraprofessionals to support behaviors.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay, not not paid out of specialty.

[10537-54] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: experimentation you could do with that. And to show kids even guided thinking in different parts of the brain, light up. And and those are some of the things that we're going to actually be able to bring into the classes at the middle school.
TEXT> So we're excited about it. And these are the  PBL  programs just walking around students working in the afternoons at the middle school. I just tried to snap a few shots going around  at the schools.  Some of the posters,   having to do with courage and perseverance  as a theme by the whole school.  It was really wonderful to see  these students are designing and testing bridges,  as well. This is the afternoon block that everyone goes off into groups, and I'll get you a list of those blocks. And so that you can see those skillful teacher is those that we had almost 24, I think, I think we 24 people, including administrators and teachers, taking the skillful teacher course here in this room today,  just a few hours ago, literally, it did not look like it does today. It kind of looked like this is a classroom visit from Maple that I put in there for good measure. And this is the this same room and that's the same screen with the presenter. They were in here all day as a series of eight  full day workshops that they're going to have on, on,  improving their repertoire of teaching.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we hope to have another spring cohort of people educated all this through our our training grants. Okay. But just to build capacity in the classroom for teaching and

[16226-325] Frank Sprague | Chair, Claremont School Board Finance Committee; Vice Chair, Claremont | 2024-12-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: between the Esser funds that we had for Covid and not having programs in place in Claremont to support the kids who are currently here. They, you know, they pushed them out the door into out of district. And it's another thing that we've inherited.
TEXT> Because my my own experience, both as a teacher, because I remember teaching and thinking, oh, if I could just get rid of those two kids, I might be able to teach the rest of them something. I remember thinking that as a teacher  and then, as an administrator, having teachers come to me and say, if you could just get this kid out of my class, I could teach the rest of them something. And the pushback then back in the day was, well, what have you done? And in many cases,  teachers had not even. And again, this is not a kind of teachers because most deal with it. But they hadn't even called the parents. They had not talked to case managers. They had not done any real due diligence  prior to going to the administrator. So my my feeling is personally, is that we sort of gotten this different mindset because of Covid one, in the fact that we were feeling that we were in a general state of emergency and two,  that there were Esser funds available. What we at the time we called,  money for therapeutic placements is what we called them in the budget.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And so again, in my sense, the, I, I wonder how many of these placements took place without any real process. My, my again, my pushback immediately to teachers coming

[9586-168] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I'd like to defer to M | 2018-01-31
PREV> Michael O'Neill: of that acknowledging equipment. We took 3032 40. Out of that, s hs school admin salaries, we're going to reduce one position and add a $16,000 stipend to combine that with another position to essentially perform the same tasks, but reduce one administrator at SAS.
TEXT> Next line item is reduce one position on the admin admin secretary line.  Postage reduced by 1500 principals fund we reduced by 5000 propane. Again reduction of 4000 based on better pricing and usage  pellets. And actually we're not burning pellets at H.S. any more with burning wood chips. Woodchips are more efficient and less money, so we're saving money on that line item. Shows athletic trips to took the money out of that because the accounts are not used.  Vocational tuition was something that we noticed that we needed to add back in because we haven't been budgeting it, as you can see, over the past three years for it. But we have been spending some money to send kids to Newport, and we pay a portion of that tuition,  business and tech supplies we cut by 2500, I'm sorry, plumbing supplies by 1000,  culinary food by 2000,  culinary replacement equipment by 500. Tech equipment by 72. 620. Principal's office ts a match based on a change in position. We felt we could reduce that school admin equipment repair. We cut by 1500  school admin postage. We cut by 250 propane, again cut by 5000 transportation costs, wheeling costs. We're still going to do that cost again. We're just not allocating to it. What's that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That's such a pain in your back. But I have another question. So, the sugar River tech, vocational tuition, tech supplies, supplies, plumbing and supplies, culinary food, culinary replacement equipment.

[9495-500] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member (Speaker 27 attribution by elimination a | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: are not teachers, but their objective is to allow a child to be in the position to be taught and to learn. Not all children come from stable homes. And and so we're trying to I call that person a life jacket for many children.
TEXT> I agree, and I think that just because they're not teachers doesn't mean they're not educators in that profession. Absolutely. You gotta when kids come to school and they got to worry about where their roof is, where their meals coming from, all that. I get where you're coming from, Chris, and but I understand where Corey's coming from on that.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Why the. I'm not questioning the need or the position. I'm questioning the funding. And for me, part of my logic to all of this has been we're getting more

[9098-18] Mary Ann Lovett | Student representative to the school board (addressed as 'Marion'; nam | 2017-05-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Any comments? Questions? Concerns? All in favor? Aye, aye. Opposed? Perfect. We have our student representative report.
TEXT> So, from Stevens High School, we would like to invite the school board to. Lest we forget, the Art of commemoration exhibit opening at Saint-Gaudens on May 19th, 436. This is a cooperative venture between Stevens High School fine art students and Saint-Gaudens National Historic Site. Please see the invitations that will be handed out to school board members. Underclassmen Awards will be coming this Monday or not this Monday, May 22nd at 6:00 in the gym. The Future of Business Leaders of America fundraising efforts. Three students going to Anaheim in the national convention for Bella Zach Saint Hope, Zachary Bryan, Richard Bell will be hosting a dance on May 26th at Stevens a car wash, and will also be selling raffle tickets for prizes to raise money for their trip. Kneecap science tests were taken by the entire junior class yesterday in the Gym City. Results are in and we will be sharing information at future school board meeting. Aiden Cahill scored a 1400 which keep in mind is of 1600 and the average is 1000. So that's pretty incredible. Future school board a  New Hampshire state scholars will journey to the Fisher Cats game tomorrow, and Manchester 26 seniors will enjoy a day out at the ball game to recognize their accomplishments, along with students from around the state.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: The final SAS Band Inquire concert is Thursday, June 1st at 7 p.m.. Students in the owls program went ahead with the Community Service Day on April 21st. They had

[9907-127] Kathleen Bunnell | Maple Avenue School principal nominee, SAU 6 curriculum coordinator (n | 2018-07-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: So what are you going to do first when you get to Maple Avenue? Make it to make it your school?
TEXT> I already feel like it's our school already. Right. It's our school. I spent a lot of time there. I'm just eager to get started, to start building relationships, to, assure them of their greatness.  And just get started. Just get started and see kids smile every day.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: I just want to say my gift to you as the new stairs in the back. I'm sorry. My gift to you as the new stairs in the back. Thanks,

[9495-742] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: Thank you.
TEXT> School resource officers, the next on the list. We're recommending that this be reinstated with our recommended adjustments to the directive. Of school resource officer. I don't think I have to say too much about that person and what that professional has done in this position. K through 12 staff, students, community.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Can I answer a question now for that? As far as I think it's great that we have that K through eight, however, I don't I'm confused about the fact

[8407-201] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'Paulette Fitzgerald, prin | 2016-05-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: data on all of our students, during that intervention block, it's a 45 minute period every single day every hand is on deck. Whether it's a teacher or a paraprofessional, every single one has a group of students that they're working with during that time.
TEXT> And Doctor Goodwin has been in the building during our intervention block. And he has said some of these groups are really small. Our targeted groups are very small. We're talking, for 4 to 6 kids and most of them.  So, so that they're really getting that direct instruction in those areas of need. Does that mean.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes. Okay.

[9171-164] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Frank' [47], [410], [416]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Okay.
TEXT> So I know we've heard this before, but I'm sort of asking this question for those who are listening. Now, this is an adaptive program, correct? Could you explain how that works with the average kid taking the the test, how it finds them?
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh. Oh, yeah.

[17029-73] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Matt Angell: to sit on both sides of the fence. So I have to go and work on student achievement, which which I have three goals. And then I also have to work on, making the organization efficient so that we can squeeze out, right, financial resources.
TEXT> Just interject on the achievement part. So we did recognize at the last board meeting the schools that have come out of exited at sea. And you know and. I just did. And so this,  Maple Avenue and unity and we're all recognizes is in good standing. But I also want to clarify that was for the subsets of students that were in jeopardy before were still not academically where we need to be. So I just want everybody to know of that. So like, yes, we did recognize that they they exited that  status. But it's not a everything is great academic and.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The goal we want.

[15607-269] Taylor Luke | Youth program specialist, TLC Family Resource Center - SELF-IDENTIFIES | 2024-03-06
PREV> Taylor Luke: And then a curriculum that I am currently teaching is, catch my breath vaping curriculum. So it is a five course curriculum where we talk about reasons why we start vaping. We talk about the health effects. We talk about the addiction portion of vaping.
TEXT> And then we really just go over resources that can help you quit. If that's something that you decide you want to do.  It is an evidence based course. And really, my job is to come in and just give students the education piece surrounding vaping because as everyone is probably aware, it is a rising concern and there are a lot of students that are having vapes within the school,  and even getting them from maybe their home as well. So I also  am going to go over the Shine curriculum, but I'm also going to save that for Carrie.  But there are some questions that we wanted to go over for TLC in reference to sexual health. So here for sexual risk, this is going to be question 57.  Have you ever had sexual intercourse. And this is divided up between female and males. So for Stephens we're showing 37.8% for female. For males it is 29.9. And for the county we're right at that 37.8 for the males. The county is a little higher. State  30.6 and then males 28 for question 60.
NEXT> Taylor Luke: How old were you when you first had sexual intercourse for the first time. And this is going to be in reference to sexual intercourse before the age of 13

[15687-92] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Joint Board CHAIR - re-elected tonight, presiding from 140.7s on | 2024-04-11
PREV> Unidentified: Sure. Okay. Just grab the papers. We'd like to nominate, for the director of Student services, Michael McCusker. He is? What is his current position?
TEXT> She's the director of she services. Assistant director of student services.
NEXT> Unidentified: System director. Okay. And then for director of human resources, Patrick Ahern. O'Hearn. Not her. Patrick overheard.

[15693-94] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: know a little bit more as well as I'm going to talk to John Cloudier and Gary Merchant about a little bit more from them. But at the the director's meeting I learned some information that I think I need to share with you all.
TEXT> And then staffing for 2425 just to kind of give you a ballpark where we're at. So the sRGB report is probably expected to be due by May 1st. I talked to the consultants yesterday. They're hoping to get us all that information. They were here for two days. They talked to students,  the teachers.  They had great responses from both those groups there. They talked to outside agencies. They tried to talk to the  sending schools in the area, either by phone or by zoom,  really getting a comprehensive background and information.  For a couple of months, they met with our community stakeholders, the Vision Committee, other folks in the community.  Andy LaFrance did a great job of getting those folks together with us, and we worked closely to get that good feedback. So we should get a really comprehensive report from them.  But they did give some highlights. And so I'm going to go over those in the second here. The tech center plans after they do this unveiling, they want to do an unpacking workshop that will involve the school district, post-secondary and business partners, probably the same group we've been having as well as others to invite and kind of analyze the findings to determine actions for future planning.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: That's good. And then the district will use the findings and work with SRB to do that with the unpacking, with development, and create a strategic plan for the next

[15638-48] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the officer election) | 2024-03-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: All in favor, say aye. Seeing none opposed, the motion passes and we're closing the public hearing. Next item on the agenda is the superintendent report.
TEXT> Good evening everybody. So I have to apologize. Initially, I said the report was 33 pages long. It's only 32. My mistake there.  I'm not going to go through a page by page, but I do have some highlights that I want to go through. So I think it's important not just the board, but also for the the public to hear what's going on in some of the schools. So  Stevens High School,  the administration and school councils met with the eighth grade on February 20th and gave an overview of what the school day would look like and answered any questions the students may have. Also, they had an eighth grade parents night that was held on the same night on February 20th from 6 to 7, and it was my understanding it was well attended.  In regards to operations, student staff acted quickly and appropriately during a brief shelter in place on 220. This will be counted for the six out of ten required drills by the end of the year.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Culture and climate. Culture and climate continue to be focused. Be a focus at Stevens High School. Positive bystander journey. I'm sorry. The positive bystander journey, bringing in the bystander

[10942-387] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's the only place it can come.
TEXT> Okay, so my question is all it's going to take is one person coming into the community. Just one. So now we have all of these families all back together again. It just takes one person. We can't even get families to pay the lunch debt. We can't even trust families enough to do that. And I'm not knocking on anybody. But the way I'm looking at it is I agree with you 1,000,000% am I? The risk that I'm taking is relying on other parents to do the right thing and other family members to do the right thing, and other family members to report if they've gone out of the state and other family members to report. If there's child, child, you know, their kids sick. That's what I'm looking at. I agree with you, but I don't know if I have the faith in maybe it's emotional enough, but I don't know if I have the faith in all the other families to do the right thing, like you and I would.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I've got Rob actually. First, then Mike. And Jason. Yeah, kind of man.

[16408-25] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-03-17
PREV> Michael Herrington: put on it. You know, what was it the legal definition of bullying, harassment and the outcome of what happened? A lot of this is, making sure that it's documented well, and you can get back to it so it doesn't fall through the cracks.
TEXT> Right.  The other thing that we've done is we do a lot of work  for issues that aren't necessarily up to bullying, but definitely be an issue between students.  We do have our director of restorative justice, Stephen Pascucci. You meet with students and he'll he's done restorative circles with students where they will sit down and kind of, a lot of work goes into, individually with each student kind of what's happening, what their viewpoint, what's the other students possible viewpoint, and then we'll bring them together. That is a process that needs to be done,  that needs to be agreed upon by every party. You can't just go to a student and you're going to go to a restorative circle. No, you have to want to try and solve that issue from the administrative  point.  I encourage every student to do it. It's a process that, frankly, if you want it resolved, that's the only way it's going to happen. Right. We can probably stop certain instances,  from happening. We can stop, students from seeing each other. We can, in extreme cases, you know, even move the classroom if we absolutely have to. But if you really want to stop saying, oh, well, I heard someone tell me that someone's talking about being. You want that you have to sit down with the other student.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: You have to go through things on their perspective. And we found it to be very successful. You know, with all the things that we do, I would say that's

[17594-249] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - opens the meeting, runs the agenda; addressed as  | 2026-09-16
PREV> Tim Broadrick: It's..
TEXT> I think it's wonderful, Don, that you're bringing it up. And for the public and for the administration to look into. We all know that getting kids involved makes the high school experience better and more successful. And if we can create different ways of getting kids involved, that's what it's about. So I think your suggestions are terrific.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Well, and I think that Mr. Lovell and all of you know, that I have certain ideas about the landscape of public education after 20 years of sustained enrollment decline.

[15693-163] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you. Doctor Herzog. Have something to say? Since now Valley Regional is becoming part of Dartmouth-Hitchcock. I'm wondering if they would be a really good vehicle to get what you need from up north down here.
TEXT> That is potentially what we're going to look at. And I don't want,  I'm hesitant to just take old equipment. Right. No. That's right. Right. Like the stuff that they don't if it's  relatively decent and new that students could learn on. But there's new technologies coming in all the time. And so if we can get that up front, that would be better.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: But I was thinking of, of the, the medical assistant teacher.

[10605-73] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-11-06
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: Claremont superstition for. Still, I have nothing for Maple Ave. I do have something that I that I. After I printed this, the Halloween parade went off without any wet weather issues. The rain had often enough for them to show off their costumes outside.
TEXT> Walking down to the NFL and back  for the River  center.  I have nothing, for the Claremont Metascore. Congratulations to the CMS Drama Club for their outstanding performance that they did. On November 15th, The Sims PTO was hosting a dance for the middle schoolers from 7 to 9 for Stevens High School. I applied day is this month. On November 20th, they will be hosting a variety of college admissions counselors and other volunteers to assist students with any last minute questions about their college applications. Students will be able to apply to any New Hampshire's through a two year or four year for free on this day. Additionally, students will be entered to win a $500 dollar ship that will be driven out on class night. More information will be coming soon, including information on how to sign up. Parent-Teacher conferences happened on November 4th. Many parents and teachers attended on November 13th. Students will attend the River Valley Community College Discovery Day to explore all of the programs offered there and talk to professors firsthand on November 15th. Students will attend the Teen State College Access Convention, which will allow them to tour the campus tucked in missions representative and try their campus food.  I'm going to wayside or something from last week.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: I have two other students who attended the care conference here today on October 15th. They made a presentation that they were present. This was the conference that we went

[11933-13] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: class sizes overall are pretty low everywhere. But we do see in that fourth grade in Maple, two at 23 we didn't have enough staff. And what we're trying to get at was the the how tough it is to cut some of those sections.
TEXT> So I think a good one in some principles and principals here now. But when they have two 20s,  particularly if you see the K in Maple and I'll just go across this and they could have if they had their way. I think this is right here. They made the argument to happen size down around 12 or 13 for the K classes. Anyway. That's that's where they're both effective in terms of  managing the students. But what we hope to do and I'll show you see some of the configuration that we have for if we had pre-K below the maple with 379 students and kind of we've adjusted that today a little looking at what we have, and I'll show you that in the next slide. We also  have questions about the overall capacity of the building to have that that many. And there's a there's a few things that we have to  vet through. And  and we'll talk about this, but this was from our original go round. But it is a similar what we did today is it kind of put some numbers together to show where we would be  today.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Or and I tried to color coded to make it a little bit easier to follow. But we still are. And I stress that it is just a first pass

[10623-284] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah, it's a little bit more.
TEXT> And MSP is providing quite a bit of guidance and help, in these communications between  communicating helping the school to communicate to parents, the need for physicians information, communicating to physicians so that they're aware that there, liability is is limited. I think that's a concern that I heard yesterday was that some physicians are saying, gee, I don't want to really sign off on this because I don't even know who this kid is or.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Right. And they need to be very aware that there's a huge difference between a medical model and an educational model. And I think that that's where a lot of

[38822-112] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal, Disnard (first name spoken here; surname  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Christine Baker: fleshes out, I think it would be a benefit to have, you know, that fifth grade teacher working alongside the other fifth grade teachers in that approach. So I think for, you know, that's one other benefit, at least for bluff. So that's really awesome.
TEXT> I think our focus remains on relationships  between students, staff and families. And I think there's a lot of,  increasing of relationships that can be done earlier with families through through preschool entering. And again,  if you've we used to have Disney art housed a preschool many years ago and starting your day off with the chicken dance, it doesn't get any better than that. And it just enriches everybody in the building.  So it's just that's just a nice addition in in addition to all the other things we talked about. And I think Mr. Romeo has some great things to share.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Well, I think you've. Covered a lot of things that. We talked about. But, given a tough situation that we have, we thought this be one of the better options

[12115-423] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Nick' at [580] and [623]) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you. You might be able to answer my question was if we said  the entire program, why wouldn't we then take all those ten kids or not.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Have all been close contact.

[16157-90] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-11-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah.
TEXT> The larger number of students and three different buildings. Right. So it would be a it would be a heavier pull for whoever is being the coach at the elementary school level.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And the reason we we haven't shifted people is that's where they have their expertise. Right. Okay. Putting a I know I as a if I were an elementary coach

[11649-125] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-06-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: I think Hanover spends 27,000 per student.
TEXT> It wouldn't be surprised. It's not far behind. Yeah. And again, the average what's important, there's a distinction between what your average cost per student is and what it costs for a specific student as well. Our average students,  we have students out in placement bend that cost us quarter of a million a year. Yeah. So it cost a quarter of a million. And we've got other kids that cost far less. But you add them all together and that's how you come up with your average cost per student. And so that's not the same as,  what it actually costs for a specific student. You know, we could calculate what it costs for Prescott to get an education. It's not 2 or 300,000. It's probably not even 15,000 if that's the average. But it's there's a difference between a specific student and the average student because we've got some students that are very, very expensive.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So and in the 17 number that I gave you that's taking out those very expensive.

[10974-229] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah. I don't see any reason why we can't. I don't see you. I don't understand the reasoning not to open the high school as well. High schoolers are not more infectious. The little kids high schools are not more infectious than dolls. They're.
TEXT> They're actually. I think they are. From what I've read, that it's more prevalent with older, older kids, I believe. But I made.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Our current numbers show no reason to hold that. So that's my thing. I was going to review in two weeks from the opening date with a plan to return

[15286-84] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: the discipline matrix as in a consistent level. We're to the point now after using it last year. Kids do come in, say this is why you call down. We have the conversation, we give them the matrix and say, so what does that mean?
TEXT> And I think it really helps with the students where we're seeing that. They're seeing that we're not making different decisions for anyone based on who you are,  what you do. It's all same across the board, knowing that we do have other options in place if we can go down that road, we're restorative practices. So moving on to restorative practices,  this year our main goal is to  work. Right now we're starting to recruit student panel members so we can get them trained. And hopefully around December, we'll we'll get that underway. In regards to the actual training  and what that means, it's going to be small. Students will go in front of their peers and it's not to be judged. It's not to say this is what the discipline is. It's it's so they the student leaders on the restorative panel, will listen to what the student said, the people who are in front of them.  We'll talk about what happened in the in the peers will say I wasn't there, but this is how I see it affects the school. And they make and they would make the decision on, you know, with a staff member also present at the meeting will make a decision as well.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Like last year, we had some, you know, possible bullying, harassment. So that student did a, a learning project. And it's usually about takes. They have to work after school

[17241-112] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: So which ones are we allowed to discuss?
TEXT> You can discuss, like, things in general. So, like, say, for example, there's a  you can the first one might have, electricity on there. So you can talk about electricity to your heart's content if you deal with something with, like,  students. We transport a couple of homeless students. That's not my.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It's more related. It's more related to the email that went out with the first voucher saying that we can't discuss them.

[10521-306] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-09-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: 520.
TEXT> Okay, so there was double what there is now. The population was the same. I was looking at the census the other day. The population of Claremont was within a couple of hundred in 1970. Something as it is right now. So what that means is  there's a lot less kids in this town, and there's a lot more people in her demographic in this town.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And birth rates are down.

[10942-325] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: These are. Yeah.
TEXT> So this so when you looked at that the matrix this was one of the links that I said. If you click on the link it brings you to what what it would look like. So it's not necessarily a child's schedule but it would be every child schedule. So if you clicked on this you would see okay cohort A on Monday they would have school. On Tuesday it would be a remote day. On Wednesday would be a personalized learning day, on Thursday would be school. And on Friday it would be a remote day. So and it's like this for all of them. So this one here is the black design maple. And then you'd have the same thing for CMS and the same thing for the high school.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Can you elaborate on what a personalized. Learning is.

[10002-144] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (explains the shared tech integrator [ | 2018-09-13
PREV> Josh Malloy: where it's a bit more challenging. If we just have our Claremont technology integrator, it becomes more difficult to share that with unity. But with her being in the budget, it's much easier to be able to make her available to to the whole district.
TEXT> She spends a large amount of time working directly with teachers and students during the day, so she'll go out for a period of time every month if there's a set schedule. So she has a regular rotation, that she's in unity and she works in classrooms, she works with teachers during their prep and planning periods. She does professional development for them. So it's it's far beyond just website management in terms of her role and function across the sea. And she also manages all of the my plans. So that's the professional growth tracking for the entire district. She manages  our track software for the district. So that's also Claremont and Unity. And then she manages,  the  back end of ASAP for the district. That's the software we use when teachers need to get a substitute or pairs because they're going to be out sick. So she manages the back end of that. So she manages our software systems  that cross the whole saw. And she does the professional learning with the unity faculty and staff, in addition to some of those other things that they mentioned. So that's how she's shared across the.. So she's.
NEXT> Sara Lowe: But she's a full time employee.

[17046-230] Michelle Springer | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-12-17
PREV> Michelle Springer: therapeutic program is necessary, it must be clearly identified and fully staffed. A legitimate alternative program requires a full time administrator, a school nurse, certified special educators, general education teachers A, B, C, A, and writes in-person mental health counselors, oversight, data collection, and accountability.
TEXT> Anything less is not in an alternative program. It is a placement that risks violating student rates. Finally, there is a significant community and fiscal concern when required. Related services such as counseling and behavioral support are not delivered as written in IEPs. Families and taxpayers deserve transparency. What funds are allocated for these services? Why are schools understaffed and if services are not being provided, where are the funds going?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much. Thank you.

[16951-42] Michelle | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID — first name only; a second commente | 2025-11-05
PREV> Michelle: of classes and being taught and screens all day, or having days upon days off when your parents, your advocates, and your teachers told us this would happen and should have been done before school as they saw it coming, but yet we ignore them.
TEXT> We moved on with our own ideas and not collaboration. That's how this has been done the whole time and it's very disappointing. There have been people that have tried to collaborate with the school board in admin  on for special ed parents, myself included. I've tried to email you with the parents of Information Center and I got back I for this on to carry and then when I emailed Cory I've just been ignored. So now we are going to play on this parental session information session together as the Parent information Center of Concord with advocates and myself to support our parents. Because today, as I was in an IEP meeting and a parent was told that we just didn't have enough special educators to service her child, and now we're losing an OT and we don't have enough  occupational therapists to help this child. That is wrong. And that's all I have to say. I want to know what's going to be done with the restructuring.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[10942-295] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Ordered.
TEXT> In the clear, the clear plastic dividers. Are you talking about. Those are for desks. Students desks.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Yeah. Okay. The child has to come back to like, a kid table to work with a teacher. They have these devices. They can work with the future.

[9876-534] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (offers to distribute the press releas | 2018-06-28
PREV> Unidentified: Have people.
TEXT> I'll distribute it to the two newspapers, print papers, Valley and Eagle. I'll distribute it to her as the on line paper. And then it can also be distributed via our school messenger, which will email to all families of students. And if you're so inclined, I can also send it to the city. They have a listserv that they use to to distribute, and we can get it out to all those sources. We can put it, Anywhere else you'd like us to put it.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: I just don't want to come into any more public meetings and have the community say they don't know what we're doing, so. Yes. Why? Dissemination is good. Okay. The

[15444-504] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah. That's fine. We have. Are there any behavioral specialists?
TEXT> Yes, we have. Right now we have Mr. Pascucci, who's the restorative practices? He does a lot of the behavioral stuff in regards to.  I wouldn't say it's, it's like from your last question with, Frank, it's, Is he a specialist? Yeah, but it's not tied to the, like, a behaviorist or anything like that. Okay. He's more of working with the students in regards to the bad behaviors and the negative behaviors we see to work with them  in us to  resolve the situation and tie that component to it. We don't have I don't believe we just.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Sure.

[17323-286] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair; chair of the Sugar River Valley Regional Tech | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: Excellent. Excellent. Sugar River regional tech center.
TEXT> No, we had a great presentation tonight from the the students and.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And the minutes from our last meeting will be. When? Thank you. Good. All heard that? Anything else?

[10274-116] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-06
PREV> Alex Herzog: We would have a community corrections officer.
TEXT> What I mean is no kids. Correct? Okay, Rob.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: What are the security. Procedures going to. Be like for the time that they're here? It's going to be one guard per individual. Is it?

[10638-121] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: newspaper. So it was nice. And she got to really meet with some students and talked about the Minchin shop and what we do there. Culinary is always a great program. I hope you enjoyed the cookies today. The culinary students made those fresh today.
TEXT> They cannot go back to the kitchen so please take them home. That would be great.  As you can see, we do some catering and there's a couple of students. They're preparing salads. We also had White Mountains Community College come and they did a demonstration. As you can see, that's one of our culinary students. And he's learning how to fillet a salmon. So they did some salmon fillet in. And then they created some salmon steaks that day. And that was sponsored by White Mountains Community College. And so one of the things we're doing is an agreement so that our culinary students, when they graduate, they'll get six. They'll be credited with six credit hours. If they go to, White Mountains Community College automatically. So our summer programs, we when we started this, we had no idea how we're going to pay for it. Mr. McGowan and I sat down and we looked at the options, and one of the things that came forward to us was the Kiwanis of Claremont. And they said, this is a kids program, and we're really happy. At the time, they said, we our limit is $250.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: That's all we can give to a group. I said, great, that's what I'm going to ask for. And they came back with a check for $3,000 for us to

[9495-736] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: What's the difference between title one and a reading specialist.
TEXT> So we have title one teachers who provide interventions to individual children, but they're not all trained as actual reading specialists who have that level of diagnostic understanding.  They are often teachers, as I was, and they're, you know, used in a small group instructional capacity. So our title one teachers are interventionists, not reading specialists necessarily. Some of them have some more advanced training because they were lucky enough to snag them up, but they're not deployed in their reading specialist capacity.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So we don't have a reading specialist. But we do have people working on reading with our children.

[12115-372] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member, either Rob Lovett Jr. or Michael Petrin b | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: drills. You know, we don't want to take up learning time. But if there's more practice drills. So the students and teachers know what the plan is. I'm of the opinion that maybe the teachers should know that it's going to be a lockdown drill.
TEXT> So if you have a student that's high anxiety and having a hard time, that teacher can calm that students, the one particular student or two that you know, I'm not sure. It's just I don't know what the solution is, but it I got some stories that didn't go well. So that's.
NEXT> David Bailey: If I can interject several. There are several students that we know we're hiring, and we did arrange that they were privy to this before happening. We made arrangements for

[17348-36] Michelle Springer | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified; ASR renders the self-ID 'Mi | 2026-05-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Thank you.
TEXT> Michelle Springer, Blake Ward two. I'm  I'm up here to not talk about all that. I'm here to talk about something else that keeps getting moved off the agenda.  So I just want to address the serious concern about the recent decision to cut all the money  from the budget for the academy, which is the high school program.  During discussions, it was stated that there were no current students with IEPs in that program, and that information was incorrect. There are students with IEPs currently being served there, including students brought back from at a district. Placements. These students require legally mandated supports and cannot simply be moved into general education settings without appropriate services in place. At the same time, we are acknowledging that this program was never certified with the New Hampshire Department of Education, yet we move forward without revisiting prior guidance, without prior guidance, with current leadership, including our ministration, the Student Service Director or the high school principal before making these significant budget cuts. The issues don't stop there. We currently have situations where the special education teacher assigned to this program is regularly being pulled to another school, leaving the classroom to be run by non certified staff on a daily basis. That raises serious concerns about both compliance and the quality of instruction students are receiving. Even more concerning, some students, juniors and seniors have gone an entire year without earning credits from last year.
NEXT> Michelle Springer: There was no consistent oversight, no system of accountability to catch this in the real time yet. Now these same students and their families are being told they must make

[15483-95] Matt Upton | Attorney for the Claremont School Board (Drummond Woodsum) - CHAIR'S R | 2023-12-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: investigation and they say, well, we need in this area is x, Y and Z, and we could link it, you could with CTE programing and use the funding from an external source. That's what I'm getting at is the budget neutral but opportunity positive.
TEXT> Doing a preschool that could be doing a preschool that's accessible to the entire community, including those that would be  part of workforce housing, is actually a great opportunity to get atypical peers to, to to, to work with your your developmental preschool. Right. It would also provide you with enough children that you could develop a lab school, much like what the Concord Tech did.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We used to have that here. What I'm talking. About how they got funded.

[11444-109] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: what the plan will be. It's in flux. So I, I don't want to be I want to address those things. I want the public to know that that we're on that. And you will be hearing at the school level as soon as possible.
TEXT> It has been all hands on deck call and getting kids back for the,  you know, for,  you know, next week. So that that's that's been our, our primary goal. We haven't lost sight on all of the other things on the we're looking at programs to assess  student and benchmark students to look at the gains for next year with products that will monitor that and the everything like that as that's coming and being, you know,  put together as well. So all of those things are  we're we're at it. And we'll have we also have  the competency based and mentioned that before of the separation between the competencies and the grades. We'll have a presentation for that ready for  May as well on how that's going.  But we've it's, it's, it's been it's been a show as my daughters would say. They say this to me a lot. It's, it's it's been a lot that, you know, but it, it's, it's been a heck of a week. And my hat's off to,  to all of the work that's been done. So we're, we're on it.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So like, oh, I had. To just a comment or. Question, I guess. To me, it's great to see, you know, I'm taking my son up at the park and

[17594-250] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's and finance stat | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: and for the administration to look into. We all know that getting kids involved makes the high school experience better and more successful. And if we can create different ways of getting kids involved, that's what it's about. So I think your suggestions are terrific.
TEXT> Well, and I think that Mr. Lovell and all of you know, that I have certain ideas about the landscape of public education after 20 years of sustained enrollment decline.  I think it's really important that we are creating reasons for kids to want to be in our schools.  No matter who we are. And I've been consistent about this for, I think, quite a long time. I just came from a place where the high school in the last four years, added a wrestling program to ice hockey co-ops, competitive cheer, a football program, e-sports. I used to walk under a state championship bass fishing banner every day.  Walking through the gym. And it's not. I wasn't the coach. Although I know a little bit about cross-country. I used to anyway, it's not expensive, and it's not difficult. It requires commitment and a little bit of willingness to do work. That's it.  I learned just recently, I'm sorry to say, a little bit of shame to say that it took me until the last couple of weeks to realize that we don't have a unified sport in the fall. At Stevens, we only offer unified sports in the winter. In the spring. I don't understand that, and I can assure you that won't be the case. Next year we will have unified soccer. I missed you that.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Anyone else?

[13420-194] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (addressed as Heather by the guidanc | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: Hopeful for me.
TEXT> Because it seems like there was a lot of very  rudimentary things that were missing, and there is no way for any student to do well when there or teacher to do well when, as you said many times, the foundations aren't there. And we haven't provided foundations for our educators either. So for me, moving forward, when I think of what we need to do for a district, I think of leadership in schools putting,  administrators in place to oversee curriculum, to oversee literacy, to keep their eye on all these balls. And I don't think that necessarily means that we have to inflate our budget, because if we have teachers adequately supported, if we have programs like Ben's program or one that was approved the pride program and we can provide adequate supports, it doesn't mean our class size, our class sizes might be able to grow a little bit. We may be able to make accommodations and other staffing areas if our teachers have the supports that they need an actual curriculum.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It sounds like we don't. We didn't have an actual curriculum, which is what we kind of discovered roughly a year ago, and just simply having a curriculum in place.

[9950-242] Laura Byrne | HIV Resource Center, Lebanon, syringe exchange operator (self-identifi | 2018-08-15
PREV> Laura Byrne: in treatment, which is which is great. We also give out naloxone, the overdose reversal drug. And I think that right now that's really critical because so many people are using fentanyl, which is a very powerful opioid. We've had a lot of overdose reports.
TEXT> I was just counting I think we had 42 last year, but 42 over overdose reversal. So at least we can help keep people alive. And you mentioned, having syringe exchange near a school zone. A lot of my clients are parents of children who go to school,  and sometimes they bring their children in. And it's I just think it's critical for people to get help. There are a lot of there's a lot of studies about syringe exchange. There was an original, sort of a seminal Yale study in 1993 which actually tested drug residue on needles  and HIV and viruses on needles, and discovered that in New Haven, when they opened a syringe exchange, the HIV transmission rate decreased markedly. And I think we're we're seeing that as as well with hepatitis, a lot of our clients have hepatitis C. We're trying to get them follow up testing and care.  We're trying to avoid another HIV epidemic. HIV is now there's been several cases among injection drug users in the Manchester area, and we're concerned that it's going to come up in our direction. So it's really important to get people tested and to offer them the knowledge of, how you can avoid getting HIV and hepatitis C,  but there are also studies that indicate that people in who who frequent syringe exchanges are much more likely to get into treatment.
NEXT> Laura Byrne: And I've seen that at our exchange, too, because we facilitate entry into treatment all the time. We do, we call treatment programs with our clients on site and try

[15357-73] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School staff member handling the VLACS registrations  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And do they get homework through.
TEXT> Or it's a work at your own pace program. So,  the teachers give them a pacing guide. And we're trying to work out because of the, the technical glitches, we experienced exactly what we're going to look like with this when we transition for the semester.  We can't put their grades like their individual assignment grades, into our grading system because our algorithm is different than V  is algorithm, and it would cause a lot of confusion and changing in grades. So  they'll get one final grade for the semester from that course that will come from their final grade from blocks for that. And they are only registering even though they're normally full year courses. They call them segments instead of semesters. So the students right now are in segment one, and the students in second semester for us would be in segment two so that they can their only being charged with half of that.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Just bless you all for pulling this all off, Jeff and you guys and just having the kids have a successful experience.

[17241-316] Brian Rapp | School Board Member (sworn in at this meeting; term to 2029) | 2026-03-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: No, I appreciate that. I just think that we should allow everyone to have information to make informed decisions instead.
TEXT> Of people have the information and they they don't want their kids. They don't they don't want to send seventh and eighth graders to the high school. That is stuff that I have heard repeatedly. It's a nonstarter. And again, we need to stabilize the district. We need to focus on education, get out of this hell year, and try to build on something without the idea of closing another school and reconfiguring hanging over everyone's head because the teachers don't want to deal with it. I don't want to deal with it. The public doesn't want to deal with it. I think that's what. We need. A break.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: You've spoken. To.

[15444-603] Frank Sprague | Chair, finance/budget subcommittee; Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2023-12-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: That I mean, it's probably not a whole lot of ninth graders with the amount that we're paying.
TEXT> Probably be ten, 20, ten and 12 kids.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, I'd have to ask. We'd have to ask Ben on that. But I know what what we're trying to do. I think the hiccup right now is that, you

[16286-4] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-01-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: an exploratory committee for, maximizing student opportunities. We've had a lot of discussion through the budget process and through all of the work that we've all been doing. That's transparent, and I'd like to discuss the opportunity to develop an exploratory committee. On student opportunities.
TEXT> On maximizing student opportunities. So I would like to make a motion to  amend the agenda to include Miss Hawkins request for a discussion on creating  an ad hoc subcommittee for enhancing student opportunities. Do I have a second? Who's second?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'll second.

[11007-168] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Audra Buckland: that we would only have four home base rooms going down to the cafeteria for lunch at any given time, and we plan to use the cafeteria and the multi-purpose room so that that represents Max 30 kids in each of those very large places.
TEXT> And we feel that we'll be able to spread them out safely in that, in that space. So I think those are some of the biggest things that obviously hand sanitizer in the temperature, all of the same screening  our bus drop off and our  car drop,  you know, the morning drop off has been working very well. Our our end of day dismissal has also been working well. We've been letting kids leave in by walker rider bus rider so that they're not all in the halls. We're going to have to start that a little bit earlier I think, and and have it take a little bit longer. We're having one whole group clear. We might have to go into having a wing of the building for each of those groups so that there are fewer kids walking in the hallways.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[10993-100] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we would pull off because that that is one of one of the biggest, obstacles to to planning in procuring the equipment that you need to to transition to a model like this is being able to get the stuff in time at a cost.
TEXT> That's,  that's where you're able to pull it off. So we're down there looking at  models of how we could make the cafeterias safe in a cost effective way,  that we could also stand up to the fire department and other safety,  scrutiny that we that we have to look at the scrutiny that we have to look at. And we had a discussion about how we would make,  how we would put up Plexiglas or another any, any other type of material dividers in the caf so kids could see themselves, see their friends eat, and have a seminal experience without turning to the side and breathing on each other just as you're talking. And and so they they came up with this design. We spoke about it for a little while, and we had some leftover plexiglass from when the prisoners made, made the other prototypes that that have worked so well. And then, Mr. Burton and Mr. Hill said, well, you know, what if if we want to reduce the fire load, as it's called from the fire department, the potential flammability of a certain room factored, which we also learned more about that than we ever  want, you know, thought we'd  know exactly in our fire department is absolutely amazing at working with us with this, by the way,  on a compliment them as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And so what they did within within three hours of us in the room talking about seeing how the prototype was going, they threw it up and designed that. From

[9406-317] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks.
TEXT> So, you know, we have students who come to us and, they might report that, he looked at me. She looked at me, you know, or disliking someone's attire or, you know, we just listed some things and got some feedback from the teachers on what they're hearing. Some  impulsive comments. Now, we know about brain development, right? We know that that frontal lobe is not fully developed. We know that middle school is are impulsive. They say things sometimes. They don't even know why they say them. So when we're sitting down with kids, sometimes I'll ask, why did you do that? And when they look at you and say, I don't know, they don't really know  why. So we have to handle it in a really, a really special way.
NEXT> Unidentified: Question. So. Oh, yes. Sorry.

[16433-30] Noel Beauchaine | Stevens High School student, representing Student Board Member Miles S | 2025-04-02
PREV> Lily Clark: how we present ourselves. Our theme this year is Night Out on the city. So we're having different cityscapes, and we're turning the gym into a city scape where we can just, like, have fun. And then Noel Hussain with our lovely newspaper. Oh, okay.
TEXT> So this. Has been in the works for a while. I transferred to Stephens this year. I'm a junior. And I went to Doctor Harrington at the beginning of the year, or Mister Elliott. It was someone. Sure.  I don't quite remember, but we pointed me in the direction of Miss Walsh, who worked for the Eagle for coming years, 25, 25 years, and she has a background in design, so. And she knows the newspaper industry.  And I'm just really passionate about the community knowing about all of the things that are going on in Stevens and the things that students are doing that are really cool. And I really just wanted this to be something that students can have and students can be involved in and all around just something really positive that we can share  with you. Travis. So yeah. Very nice.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much. It was a pleasure to meet you. Oh, you'll come again? First item on our discussion action items is a nonpublic session. Is anybody break to

[23815-508] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-08-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: What's Clayton presentable? Correct, correct. I know I had I had shadow, you know, kids have little mustaches, not very clean, but you know, they're showing that they can grow them. So is that presentable or clean.
TEXT> And then we also have students that don't have access to laundry.
NEXT> Unidentified: Is there a dress code? Mustaches.

[16246-319] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (Finance Committee) (single fragment; sentence con | 2025-01-06
PREV> Michael Herrington: some it really does. It does wonders. You need someone there. I need this done in the next ten minutes. Let's go. It's just kind of where, you know, some of that needs to be. Well, we always knew that that that was not for.
TEXT> Younger kids who didn't  do well in school. That was we knew. That some seniors  I don't I can't have that. We used to have the conversation with kids. If you don't do this, you're not walking in June. And that worked for most of them. So they they hear it. I say those words.  I've,  I've kept someone from a couple people from walking, and, I've kept someone in my office for the last week of school doing work under my finger to do it. But when you get that same kid to come back for summer school, surprisingly, yeah. It's it's very odd. I don't know what it is about it. A lot of them do come back some. Now, I'm not going to say everyone, but I'd say 85%. Yeah, right.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I and I, I had wrote this note to my self.

[16371-442] Whitney Skillen | School Board Member (sentence continuation into her own cluster) | 2025-03-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: That's fine.
TEXT> Can I go and then. Yes, I agree. With that with the grant funding. I. I am curious about what other options we have to make the building feel more secure and safe and to feel like the students are being monitored properly. I remember they mentioned that, like, after the incident, the Hall Pass situation has really become really serious in the high school. And so I'm wondering like what other options were considered and is this a reaction or a response? And the other thing I'm wondering is I agree with Heather Anne Frank's, concerns about like, pay equity as well as like budget concerns. If we know that this it could be funded for one year in a grant. Could we make this like a instead of a, a a role that's on our there's a continuous role like more like a contract where we hire a person for a year, the role is guaranteed for a year, and then we reassess after or make it part of their contract deliverables to help us to basically give us a safety plan or some kind of deliverable that can help us after their contract is done. Those are like, these are just questions I have. I'm not really, like offering them suggestions or just things I'm wondering about.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, no, I can answer some of your questions. I think in regards to, you know, we all know that we don't know what's going to go on, as we

[16408-84] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter (community member with no children in school — 'most  | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: Thank you. Any other questions? Comments. Great.
TEXT> I need someone. Sadly, I personally don't have any kids in school, but most of you know who I am at this point. Anyway,  I'm just looking at the state Department of Education, Science and Arts, looking at the bullying just once again. And I looked at the Stevens High School board  for the last three years, 21 through 24, there were zero bullying incidents. And I'm wondering, where do we go to find out what's really going on?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Not to throw back on a state, but we tend to reach year. We have to submit a report to the state. They probably haven't gotten around to updating it.

[15058-82] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: What do they mean?
TEXT> So these are areas of disability in terms of the way the federal law has defined educational disability. So we've got acquired brain injury, which is a brand of brain injury that a child suffered not from birth to an accident. Autism developmental delay. This is age 3 to 9. Those students emotional disturbance. Again we have a higher incidence of this than most districts  H I means hearing impairment. So this is our well actually it's not the one student that Chris works but  I'd is intellectual disability.  MD is multiple disabilities. These are probably the most complex cases of students. Other health impairment is typically a medical diagnosis. Diagnosis ADHD generally falls under something like that specific learning disability and reading, writing or math,  speech and language impairment, traumatic brain injury, and visual impairment. Good. I got them all. I was a little nervous. I was gonna, you know, the special ed director should know every one of those acronyms. So contributing factors to consider our, you know, certainly our low socioeconomic status, the lead poisoning and in cognitive development.  You know, Claremont was one of the eight cities in New Hampshire identified as at risk for lead poisoning.
NEXT> Ben Nester: There was a lot of press about that a few years ago. Also, the the ones that I've underlined are things that are things that we can take action on.

[10768-53] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Ben Nester: But certainly one year would be worth looking at it as well.
TEXT> I think that, I guess it'd be it would be great if you had 6 or 7 years.  Particularly  middle school, when when things switch from. I just think in terms of when you switch from  arithmetic to mathematics in sixth grade, that's a that's a really tough transition for some kids. And I would think that this type of if you're training them to, to be able to literally deal with, with things that you'd see some benefit there. But we're a few years away from that.
NEXT> Paige Jarvis: Absolutely. Thank you.

[11262-327] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (chair: 'Thank you. Melissa'; sup | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Petrin: We can. All right. Okay, okay.
TEXT> Hi. I'm sorry. I do just want to chime in briefly.  Rebecca, you are spot on. And if you had been at Disney today and were a remote teacher, you received a you would have received a draft of the letter that will be going to parents very soon. A remote parents that highlights exactly what you're talking about and asking for. We started talking about moving more of our remote students or moving more of our remote model to a synchronous model. What we found is the concern was we were doing it only because of, moving remote, moving our a B students to remote due to Covid, and that was not our reason for doing it. So what we did is we held off another week. So we have a letter at Disney going to families that to our remote families that states that will be moving to more of a synchronous model for our remote students. We're trying to time that at a time. There will be less, confusion and due to schedule changes. And by that I mean we were trying to hold off until February 2nd, when we had students exiting from remote to in-person learning.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: So just due to that, we were going to have to make some schedule changes for our remote students because we need to regroup kids. And so we didn't want

[10942-321] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: you know, we can have for parents because we have social distancing or whatever. And then we could have, you know, you could schedule time to come in on that day because some people do much better sitting in front of someone then they do.
TEXT> If we send them a video and say, watch this video and make what that video does, because number one. How do you mimic it when you're on your computer? So you can't so what do you put that video on hold and then go on to the  next tab and try to do it this way. They're right there and it's being shown on the screen. So they can actually see how to do it, and then leave with a paper copy of the step by step process on how to do it. We're looking at hotlines. So we're looking at having students, community members, staff run hotlines. So if that way a parent is having an issue with a program or something, they could call in or they could, you know, text in or, or they could use a computer and email in and get that support that they need right away. The we have a having a, say, six remote learning Facebook group. So we'll have a group that's designed just for questions that people may have regarding  the remote learning piece, because I know sometimes if I have a question, you know, and I can go on Facebook and say, hey, does anybody that has to do this? And within seconds I could have like 20 people responding to me.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And so that's what we're looking at doing. So that way they can get the immediate feedback. I know there have been times when I've gone on Facebook at like

[8884-120] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Wonderful.
TEXT> You know, just like we have. People have to be vaccinated. Yeah. That has to be there. I it should be a policy that we have that all kids that come in had to have been screened  to be able to register.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Do we have the option to pursue one of those grants to get the machine? So we have one at the school? I'm, I'm thinking the, the, the hiccup here

[15311-99] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. And we were we we were also ready to abandon it, to scale back, to only have one every iteration. You know, of that, depending on what we have going up to.
TEXT> So if you have, you're in the 60s and it's half day so that each classroom with number of students about 15. Is that accurate to say.
NEXT> Ben Nester: 15 or a little less. Okay. Roughly. Roughly. Do we had the we have the three year olds attend in the morning and then the four year old in the

[8873-98] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides: superintendent hands back with | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: we said we were going to do as far as the interview process for getting students in et cetera, etc.. So then it went back to 30. And at this point in time, I want to say we're at about 23 between the two sessions.
TEXT> And what is what are the sessions typically break down into for numbers of students?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Brian, is it about ten and 11 or 10 and 13, something like that.

[14595-480] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2022-09-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: was. It's tougher to do that on a regular basis with schedules and rely on it. It's it's much tougher. But we are we are pursuing that though, and as others are, because there just aren't enough, drivers, you know, we have to get creative.
TEXT> But the issue, I think just for clarification. So we so the folks know that we were looking at this is that there was a proposal from community members that parents could carpool and even kids could sign waivers, or parents of other children could sign waivers. But the issue, from what I understood was that if the school is providing the service, we can't essentially sublet it out to parents,  without assuming the liability, even though there is a waiver.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's absolutely correct.

[16371-259] Jennifer Gallagher | Prevention Educator, Turning Points Network (YRBS presenter) | 2025-03-05
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: is lower than both the region and the state. The last great news is that it's 15%, which I would say is pretty high. So we have some work to do there. Moving on to sexual and dating violence, which are abbreviated SD and TD.
TEXT> I looked at three different questions. So the first question looked at the percent of students who were ever physically forced to have sexual intercourse when they didn't want to.  A Stephens was actually higher there than both the region and the state, which is concerning. 13% of students reported that they were forced to have intercourse when they did not want to. So we have some road, some road work to do on consent.  But that's why Kerry and I have jobs. So, the second question that we looked at in this category was taking a look at control and emotional harm. So this question asked, what percentage of students,  reported that someone they were dating or going out with purposely tried to control them or emotionally hurt them one or more times? And this question is only applicable to students that dated anyone in the past 12 months. Stephens actually performed better than both the region and the state in this category. And I found it really encouraging that students are recognizing these patterns of control so they're able to pinpoint this type of behavior as something undesirable and or potentially harmful.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: And then, interestingly enough, this the survey asked this year the percent of students who purposely tried to control or emotionally hurt a dating partner. And it gave examples like

[9354-386] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: into our schools and talk to us about what we are doing to prevent bullying and to change behavior, and to make our schools a better place, but do things in separation from our schools that could potentially make our kids feel worse about themselves.
TEXT> So I would ask publicly, if I may, I would ask publicly that those who were planning to demonstrate take your energy and your interest with this difficult topic and join us. Become a member of a group of students, residents, faculty, administration  who want to discuss this and go forward and not demonstrate tomorrow.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: I know that.

[8433-352] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'Patrick' [45, 4 | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brent Ferland: Exactly right. Yeah. But then then you've got the 20. You have 23 instead of 25 and 23 needed more than they get better instruction. I'm just thinking quality I don't know. It's just a thought. Whole nother discussion.
TEXT> But but. You know I, I at a point and thank. You Doctor Barry because you've got to  remind I guess you minded me. It's I mean, it's been a long time since I, you know, I was big I came from the Maryland DC area and it was very. I yeah, it's been a long time. Forgot about my experiences there. But it's it it reminds it reminds me that and the I've seen as far as the trailers have I guess reentry programs. Again, it depends who the students are. I've worked into one was a special ed and the other was a alternative, and we had some special ed. I honestly found some of the best, most successful program. They were they were independent schools and most of them were, say, maybe a for special ed students and some more. But but mostly it was all behaviors. I'm not sure it's not necessarily special, but there was always behaviors. And someone  might have been there. Was a. It's a broad spectrum. But when in situations when they would have a. Whether  in all situations, anytime I taught a school where it was an independent school, it was a very different culture and not having and where they got not something sometimes they got such a top quality education. I seen it where those students took were able to take more responsibility in owning their school than adults can do, and it would.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And the reason it it can happen when they allowed to do so. And it's it's really hard when you have reentry programs because they're always looking at the kids,

[11649-91] Unidentified | Unidentified board member - questions on Goshen tuition and ESSER reim | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: a lot of work went into that and it's it's great. We, we we know historically that our numbers have decreased. Our student population has decreased. We can we can take all of that on in more without any impact. Even unity can. So to.
TEXT> Staff it in my head and I better ask before I forget it. Sure. So what do you think it from? From Goshen. Who gets the state aid for. That money for that student? Do they get it, or do we get it? Because we could they get it? Yeah. The student is is dominant. The get the state aid.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Because in effect they're using that to pay us.

[16786-4] Matt Angell | Comptroller / Acting Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-08-25
PREV> Heather Whitney: to a board vote, and then we're going to have other business and close anything out. Is there any objection to those changes in Regina saying no ejections? We're going to move forward. And our first speaker this evening is going to be Mr. Johnson.
TEXT> Okay. Good evening. I'm Matt Angel, I'm the senior controller, and I talk about the finances of the school district. But today I had a really good conversation with the with Claremont Savings Bank. I'm positive. Right field positive about that meeting. I have to wait for them to go through their analysis and and and hopefully they will loan a some money. And and if they loan us money. I feel pretty confident that we did it to the district to, march when we can talk about, maybe converting that into a longer term debt. We're also talking about cutting costs and positions within the school district. And one of the items that we're going to be talking about this evening is, sports and extra curricular activities. And, I've asked a, the school board to cut those and also to ask the school board at a future meeting to  receive donations and  sponsorships to help fund them, to make sure that kids can keep on going to do sports and other activities, such as for.
NEXT> James O'Shaughnessy: Gym. Good to see everybody again. That pretty much covered the basics. Last Thursday morning, the morning after the the Wednesday night meeting, Matt and I had a meeting with

[10252-46] Nancy Lewis | Teacher and student council advisor, Stevens High School (self-identif | 2019-02-20
PREV> Kara Gilson: There's five signed up. But,
TEXT> And we have one other student who's interested. So we're talking six students with. That's right. With Miss Gilson. And they are seniors, juniors, mostly seniors, juniors and sophomore two. Right. One press I want to just say. And I can see Prescott sitting over there. Prescott really wanted to go, but he had a  conflicting interests. She's I don't know. He's he's writing up legislation for Washington, D.C.. He's got something planted. He was a member of this committee too, but he he couldn't.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Additional questions? Sure.

[12115-235] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Nick' at [580] and [623]) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> I'm not sure this is more question for Jeff. It might be I was looking through the program of studies, and I noticed that the,  he was injured, computers or whatever, something like that, that  the class description is focused on the Google Suite rather than Microsoft Suite. Do we still have that? The Microsoft Suite for students in the school system, is that still. Yeah. So I guess I go back to you, I guess,
NEXT> Unidentified: They do do both. It's not reading that way, I apologize. Yeah, but I know that the instructor does go over both of them.

[9907-91] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member ('Steve, do you feel like your questions | 2018-07-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: I guess I mean, this is the time to discuss if you have I mean.
TEXT> The concern, the concerns I have are I mean, we we know that we physically have maintain and we should and if we're subcontract  out, we should build it for the 19 that we know because they're already there pre-trained. We're not talking about really training a whole bunch of new people, because we're talking about pulling from what they're specialized in. So that's kind of my feeling on it. If I think if we're going to jump in and get our feet wet, we need to make sure we're supplying for what we need. And I the pilot idea is great, but I'm still concerned about  the the seven other children that are possibly identified at this point.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Yeah. And and I think that the part of this is going to be the ability for us to evaluate some of these students using the Brattleboro staff. And perhaps

[9907-212] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member ('Steve, do you feel like your questions | 2018-07-18
PREV> Unidentified: Before schools for schools.
TEXT> So it goes to administrative  and from there. You know, obviously they can read the students as they go.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[16857-120] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair (presiding in Chair Whitney's absence) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: She has no idea what she's saying out in the summer.
TEXT> Do you have a motion. On the table? The motion is to summarize, is to go with proposal number two. And move students from bluff to,  discarded maple, with the date of October 20th. And. With the fire department. Coming. In to the inspection. Seconded by Kennedy.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh.

[15444-166] Frank Sprague | Chair, finance/budget subcommittee; Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2023-12-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: so that they had those assignments and my teachers are actually doing that with them. Part of the workplace learning plan for our labs, giving them change order assignments, just things that we're going to emulate, what they would do in the real world. So.
TEXT> Alex,  following up the candy's follow up,  would this person actually have a  caseload? Kids that they were.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Yeah. That's something, you know, with Mr. Pride on board, we work closely together so that we spent an hour figuring out schedules for next year. All those fun things.

[11390-53] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: and how I mean, it seems like every, every grade is behind. So how are we going to manage that to make to ensure that the kids that are graduating in five years are actually meeting those benchmarks? When this cares, money runs out. Yeah.
TEXT> So it's it's fair. So so we hope it's just as quickly as we can. We're attacking it by individual tutoring. We're attacking it by  summer programs like this. The cares money that we have so far is layered out for two years. So we have a two year span and we don't know exactly. But what's been promised is very hopeful that we could have  as much or twice as much as what we already have in addition to this allocation, if everything turns the way they're talking. You know, around the state. So we we really  we're fortunate with that. We're going to be as creative and as individualized for student as to what they need.  And we're open to to other ideas once we we do have,  you know, our program up and running, but it's,  it hasn't been easy. It's not it's not. And  I want to really thank  our administrative staff because just in preparing for what we can say with confidence about this, it's extra work. They are so excited to be out in. Our meetings  have been awesome with the community center and amongst ourselves. But we're like over this. This feels like when we first started or when we first switched a couple times.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Right now, the ramp up we have going on right now. So it's but you have to and we're, we're competing with and maybe we shouldn't be talking so much

[8433-273] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: it, but I want to I want to get it out there. I want to get people talking about we need this here as opposed to, well, let's just keep paying. What is it $174,000 for for students? Was that correct? $174,000 for four students.
TEXT> For four students who moved in over this year. And,  and then an additional  four students at 174. And then there were four additional students for 300.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Per student.

[16958-48] Matt Bean | Public commenter, Ward 1 (self-ID; ASR 'Matt Beam') | 2025-11-05
PREV> Don Lavalette: Thank you.
TEXT> Matt Beam, Ward one. So I had come here to speak for support for Mr. Lovett first. First thing, first thing I want to say, though, is that  I respect and like Mr. Sprague a lot. I voted for him repeatedly. He was my assistant principal, but he resigned like, to, like, if I resign from my job or something that I post and then do I just get to write a letter and say, oh, I get to come back and have this job back? Now I just don't think that that's fair. And I also don't think it's fair is that we had a process and we have two people. We have Mr. Lava and we have Mr. Tyson who came out of that process and to just say, oh, we're just going to open things back up again. That is very unfair to both people. So I just needed to get that out there. Now, I would like to read my prepared statements on why I support Mr. Lalala to be appointed to the school board. He. For me, this choice is clear. One candidate is a former educational professional, lived in Claremont, worked in the schools, knows the staff and the students and the challenges they face.
NEXT> Matt Bean: Has an idea of what's going on right now. And we have a different candidate who worked for an A, worked for a group that likes to direct families from

[9682-285] Liza Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3; TLC Family Resource Center (self-identified  | 2018-03-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I'm sorry.
TEXT> If I've created confusion for either you or any members of the audience. Erin's law is specific to the education policy we were talking about. It helps children to understand what is happening with their bodies as they grow older. It is nothing to do with pride or with the GST. Those are separate announcements I was making to you wearing separate hats. So I apologize if anyone is confused, but the two are completely were. Actually all three are distinct. Did you have a question Michelle?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Am I allowed to address the questions?

[10274-231] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: That's who the program was serving.
TEXT> And how many what's the total how many total identified students are there in the program?
NEXT> Diane Edwards: So are we. Cap out at total enrollment 72. And half of that is for kids on IEPs.

[8948-242] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: As well.
TEXT> Yeah, absolutely. Well, it's already from parents and students. That to me is when everybody gets involved, good things are going to happen. In fact.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Put a plug in to for us at the high school in that to have an individual with the skill set, like a Christine Downing, to not just oversee the

[16857-112] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair; Policy Subcommittee Chair (unc | 2025-09-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: to sit there and say this, but how do we do this? Is it better to do it now? Because we still could be faced with the decision in December? And then how are we moving in December if we have to go for that?
TEXT> I move. That. We. And I'm not sure. Of the wording for. The motion. So Carrie, I look to you for assistance. I look that we move the bluff students and faculty classrooms fully intact to Disney and Maple Avenue with a target date of October 20th, pending an inspection of the buildings by the fire department. Fire department?
NEXT> Unidentified: Wow.

[14911-25] Stephanie Hurst | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 (named 'Stephanie' on the recording; surnam | 2023-02-16
PREV> Michael Petrin: but there is data collected to show progress and the show correct how our teachers are growing and maintain. So it's not you know, there is some tracking progress and how features are doing better and making changes. It's just not used for their evaluation.
TEXT> I don't want to give the impression that you'll see this dramatic increase in data, but when we come before you and we show like beginning of year assessments to middle of year to end of year assessments, that that data is where you will see the impact of this coaching. So I don't want to predict I don't have a crystal ball to say the very first year you're going to see this huge spike in in our assessment data for students. But it's very common to see a large jump in that data just from one year of implementation. And then we should be able to track, I mean, ebbs and flows in a good data plot, right? So there may be some losses along the way, but the trajectory will be in a positive direction.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Steve okay, so I.

[23815-564] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) | 2026-08-19
PREV> Loren Howard: be. And in terms of like a swinging chain, I just assume that would be not allowed under weapons. So that's why I think on its own standards, and if anything is the only thing that references the hats that Bill has been concerned about.
TEXT> Madam chair, I hope we would pass this. And then a suggestion. Maybe we give this back to our two student reps that are coming on and let them be the workgroup, right. Those are the ones that are going to be most affected. Well, listen, if they're going to be part of the board right then, then we should expect that there's a responsibility there instead of just coming in and and sitting with us. So why not let them be involved in that process to flesh this out? Just a thought.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Further discussion.

[7408-9] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' via the superintend | 2015-03-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: of the of the school board. So an important day. It was mentioned by Middleton as to what was going on in Vermont. Yesterday, Vermont has a town meeting day on the second Tuesday, or the, I guess, first Tuesday of the month of March.
TEXT> And all the towns have the pleasure of coming together.  I actually went to about five of them for the towns that  are in my school district. And it really is a quite a fascinating day. Not only catching up with people you haven't seen in a long while, but some really interesting discussions, debates, comments.  We had input back at each one of the meetings from the local state legislator on what was going on at the state level, and some real give and take on that. So it was  it was an informative and interesting day. And,  you know, I hope that people in Claremont don't lose the fact that we may not get together in the town hall or in a large meeting room, but your vote and your input  is really critically important. So the polls open up 8:00. I believe it is. And  stay open, I think till seven at night, 8 to 7. So please do,  please do come out. Please do vote. Please do participate.  Student representatives report. We don't have a student here tonight. Is there a. So we'll move right on to superintendents report. Thank you. Good evening. Before you is the  annual report of March 2015.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It makes reference again to Richard was saying about the polling. And this gives you a somewhat of a comprehensive snapshot of last year, the the meetings as well as

[9470-87] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: Lexus costs anywhere you in the state, you go to buy at the same cost, usually $1,002.
TEXT> If you're going to educate your kid, it costs a certain amount. And if we're going to, the only way to reduce that cost is to slash programs and not offer what other places do. Otherwise it's going to cost the same.
NEXT> Chris Irish: But I guess that's my point, because we can't compete with anybody else in the state and we shouldn't try. We cannot compete. At some point. You hit a tipping

[10842-313] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member; elected Vice Chair at this meeting [96] | 2020-05-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: today about the very same thing and what my concerns were. So I'm very happy that you brought it up. I think Mike is trying to get, you know, to the bottom of, of all of that for us. So. I'm done. Go ahead. Heather.
TEXT> And I just wanted to this maybe for Richard a little bit. And you, Mike, is, if we can forecast what the savings to the district will be from reduced energy costs, from having the schools actually close down, less overtime for school bus drivers, etc., just so we can kind of have a sense of if we're going to have a budget surplus because of that, or if it's going to be offset somewhere else for a cost that we didn't anticipate. Also, I was just curious whether or not the students that got the Chromebooks will be get to keep them. If they were a loan program or if they actually get to keep them.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So I I'll take the easy one first, the Chromebooks. Okay, Jeff. Or you could pop into Jeff. It's your it's your world. But we we already were moving towards

[8558-263] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: schedule the right one? Five years from now, it's going to be a different board. Who says, how come you put in that schedule? It was a bad schedule, but you tried. That's what it is. But let's get back to getting the parties together.
TEXT> You have a meeting with them on the 23rd of August. At the worst, you have a new person in place of Brian who maybe has a different perspective and different way of being able to explain things, get together with the teachers and figure it out from that side. Brant, if you believe the a, B might be it, that's a good enough reason to keep it. If you think it might help one or 2 or 10 children, it's a good enough reason to keep it and to bring the adults together to do this. Let's get the teachers together. If you can't get the teachers who sit on the board, get other teachers, they can all have influence over at least figuring out what the issue is here. If it's as simple as training, if it's as easy as money, money has already been thrown at it. If it's days off, if it's professional days, if it's communication, if it's something else, find out what it is because you got 22 days to fix it. You don't have to. You don't have to admit that the only way to fix this is through the courts. That's not. That's courts are never a good way. Please.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you.

[9386-728] Robert McDevitt | SAU 6 Board member (Unity) (uncertain - speaks of 'one in unity'; the  | 2017-10-12
PREV> Sara Lowe: think those are great things, like there's a lot of community service, there's a lot of connections with businesses in town, you know, and I also think that there are people who will frequent businesses more knowing that they're partnering with high schools, you know,
TEXT> So and on  gives 13 scholarships to the high school students, 173 in Newport, three in Fall Mountain. And this year it'll include one in centipede.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: Yeah.

[14582-57] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2022-08-24
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's something I did. I did see it, too. Frank.
TEXT> It's this faculty parking lot. This for students is.
NEXT> Unidentified: 44.

[16786-88] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - teacher in a neighboring district; pa | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: all at all. I encourage more people in the community to run for school board and to attend or watch all of our regular meetings be on this issue. It is my understanding that athletics will be cut unless we raise a half $1 million.
TEXT> So should my partner, who works in athletics at Stevens, wait around until we raise that money or apply for other jobs. I know you're not supposed to discuss specific personnel in a public board meeting, but by saying athletics are cut, am I correct? Assuming she is now out of a job, there's only one athletic trainer. I think it's unacceptable for employees of your district to be waiting to find out if they have jobs or not. Not to mention finding out alongside all of our community members at the same time. You say you are being transparent, but we are watching at home to find out on a board meeting if we need to start a competitive, last minute, extensive job search or not. Last week we watched for the same reason and we were not given any additional information due to a lack of numbers. That's another week of personal stress to my household. Are we immediately cut from insurance? Are we ever going to be informed personally, face to face? Not an email, not a phone call if we need. If the contract is known for a. Should she arrive at work tomorrow? This is half of my household income that now needs to be fundraised if I'm understanding that correctly. Lastly, I want to say how proud we are of all the students getting up here to speak and advocate for what matters to you.
NEXT> Unidentified: All the athletes sitting in the back of the room I'll speak to you should know that. Molly. Excuse me. Molly, your athletic trainer, is more proud of and concerned

[15451-293] Miss Foster | Claremont Middle School staff member who built the proposed CMS master | 2023-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: And that the and the staffing for those those rooms.
TEXT> Are in the building. So based on the proposal that I've put together, every teacher has two student center blocks per week,  where they're pushing into those student centers.  And I will say, like the behavioral and academic does go hand in hand because a lot of those behavior, if they're in their behaviorally, a lot of times it's because they are they have lagging skills in their content area. And sitting down with a teacher 1 to 1 outside of their peers, looking at them can make an enormous difference in getting them back on track and back ready to reenter the classroom as a whole.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: I've also seen them use so as a teacher. And I've been asked this because I taught social studies. There's no studies teacher that's working on a project. And if

[9631-108] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting from [83]; superintende | 2018-02-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: Ask you a quick question? Can I give you a hug? Because when you're talking, I was crying and you were crying. So can I just give you a hug? Okay. I'm sorry. Sorry, I just. I need I need. A hug. Somebody. Sorry. Sorry.
TEXT> Thank you. Moving on to discussion items. Your writing. Reading of mathematics, student books, presentation.
NEXT> Unidentified: Software, topic change. But. Hey. Thank you.

[11776-69] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that if we have to have two meetings. For the change. No one knows about the variants, but the stuff that we're hearing, is that it is good. So my, my general recommendation would be, to go as normal as possible and with, without monitoring.
TEXT> There were a few  exceptions to,  today basically not having to do  temperature checks, not having to do a few other things. And you're going to see that ramping up as long as the variants or some other things don't, you know, don't change that course. So that's it's very positive news. It's great to it's great to see the vaccination, vaccination percentages and all the other stuff. So I want to include that. Just so we're we're talking about it because I know people are asking about it and it is  it's optional. Now,  the masking in the district and kind of in the region, and what we're seeing even in the summer programs is some, some most of the elementary is there's no, no mass. And some of the middle school classrooms there are mass. Okay. So it is  preferential, but  but it's it's going well. We have no complaints, no pushback anywhere. And I think the common thread there is kids are back learning. Teachers are are excited as well. So that's that's kind of that's where we are. The other piece that I wanted to put out, if you go to to the last slide, please, is  the community forums.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We push those out a week. We had obviously some things going on with the principal positions and transitions. We are going to have the Monday nights where we're going

[15413-76] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the meeting to order at segment  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: There's.
TEXT> You're very you're really giving. We're thrilled to have you. Truly. Thank you very much. So we had no students coming. We're going to actually move into our brief nonpublic.  Is there someone who is able to give me a motion for a entering nonpublic?
NEXT> Ben Nester: I don't know what you are.

[9041-53] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides: calls to order, runs agenda, c | 2017-04-19
PREV> Lisa Draper: of the Glisson days of action in the annual school calendar. Tomorrow, since they do want to be able to be out there in the community doing their service work on Friday when the rest of the country will be observing it. So thank you.
TEXT> Thanks for your work. Appreciate it. Anybody else for citizens comments? Seeing no one. Thank you. We'll move on to our first discussion item.  Food service.  Students perspectives.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I'm very pleased to introduce you and Claremont community to Prescott Herzog. Prescott is a eighth grade student. And as you can see in the agenda. He is also the

[12210-110] Veronica | District school nurse (uncertain title; superintendent asks 'Veronica  | 2022-02-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: don't have any accurate numbers at all. So there is no data by which to base our decisions on that is relevant, or that is, that we can consider accurate. There are there's data that people are using, but in reality we have no idea.
TEXT> I mean, the only thing I can say to all of you is that over this last two week period, once they said the surge was kind of going down, we've seen significantly less compared to the January numbers within our buildings. So,  I just, you know, so just based upon that and us managing children with symptoms and saying the home to be tested,  we have seen a, a good a, a large reduction.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: For, I guess either, someone comes back after five days, they come back on day six. You said masking is required. Is that is that a state requirement or is

[16882-72] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: know, how you govern yourselves. That's another place, by the way, going back to, you know, what state law says and doesn't say the only real place where you have guidance as to how boards are supposed to operate is the right to know what.
TEXT> And then, of course, one eight and 974, which is your public comment requirement. So that's the only one that's kind of out there somewhere. But all of those things, you know, so if I'm a member of the public and I want to use the gym, well guess what? There's a whole section based on, you know, things that interact with the community at large, instructional policies in one place, employees in another place. So they do that.  Policy is expected to express the guidelines and philosophical statements which chart the district scores of action. So that's sort of the big,  you know, where do we want to go as a district? What is our portrait of a student? What a or portrait of a graduate. You know, all of those things.  They support strategic direction by aligning the district goals with priorities and community values. You know, so every one of you can identify 2 or 3 policies that are just hot button. You put them on a your agenda and you'll have lots of people at your meetings in both sides.  But but but those policies, those are the things where you  sometimes, you know, you may  go, why do they do this?
NEXT> Will Phillips: Why did I run for this? Where you have to make that tough decision and you're going to tick a lot of people off? Or if you could make the

[16951-491] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (serving as in-person clerk this | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> A cab. Cab drivers are not certified to transport students. And then the vehicle has to be of a certain type.  This is all like, again, federal and state law.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Okay. Yeah. Ask our political leaders to be aware of this and help us out. Now, before we started talking about you turned on the software. The software was there.

[9073-473] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'I'm not defendi | 2017-05-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: the skills that all students need to have, you brought it up. Collaboration. And a big part. I'm going to speak as the English guy. Communication project based learning is. And so there's a lot with that in English, with English skills, oral communication, expression.
TEXT> But that  type of communicative thinking, it's I would love to see that when we're developing technology that would go beyond just thinking about in terms of the science and the math and the, you know, that side of it. But  there's a lot where, you know, a lot of projects in all the course where students can be thinking about, looking at how can how can we design, kind of kind of a way of looking at Claremont to the computer data that would be more effective, more accurate. There's I mean, there's just so much we could do with this and then, know, I just want to be  conscious of that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Anybody else? I think it's a great start for the conversation. I'd love to have more from you. A way you think we are specifically from from where you where

[16580-66] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced at the meeting as 'Assista | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: look like? And are there opportunities now that you've gone through it? And I don't know if the principals have to have some of that PD occur or what they should be looking for in analyzing data. I mean, how do we tie that together?
TEXT> Right. So we the summer professional development is a voluntary basis, right? When school begins in the fall, we can get entire teams together.  We've. Been. Doing professional development how to how to read the data, how to handle the data, how to collect the data.  And so I feel like teachers are comfortable with student data and doing the analysis.  But in order to make sure everybody's eyes are on it, we really need to have it occur during the school year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So the two days and I don't know if it's exactly two days, that's required.

[15240-120] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Bonnie Miles: I just didn't get that. So I heard you talk about six students. But if when the class size increases, eventually, it probably would happen. When? How soon would that be? And how many students would you expect? Say, you know, for the following year.
TEXT> Yeah. So, I mean, I'll speak to my own experience over the years doing some program building and other in other districts as well as Claremont.  The best way to to cause a program to dissolve right away is to start in large. Right. So ideally what you want to do is start with 5 or 6 students,  and then  over the course of usually one, two, three years, which is how long it usually takes for a program to fully form and become a consistent, you know, entity. So I would, I would we don't have a magic ball because we don't know who's going to come through the threshold. But I would say that we target, you know, a total of 10 to 12, 12 students for a year, one and two. And, you know, then if, if, if the need exists, we could, we could increase that over time. Again, there's, there's a lot of factors that will go into that because we're likely going to be looking at, you know, if it were to be housed here, we'd be looking at a location change when the renovation funds are applied for. So a lot of variables that would go into that, you know, number of.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Students okay. So that's how you got it down to six because you know okay okay. You didn't mention something about them going to work and providing for a family.

[7313-25] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: high school and go to college, they spend a lot of time in the library studying and doing things. And I believe that there needs to be a para in that library media center. In order to meet this criteria that you have put here.
TEXT> You're absolutely right. This was written by Jane prior to the budget as it currently stands. So this is this is her expectation with a para. Should the para position be cut, we would have to revisit some of that verbiage. You're absolutely right. But we  in addition to that though, our hope is to  also look at other ways in which to support Jeanne in that place, in ways in which we  use teachers, English language arts teachers, students. ET cetera. To help support her. The expectation that she can do all of this alone. We understand that that's not possible.
NEXT> Bob: On the community services that still requirement for a diploma.

[12210-136] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Unidentified: Just CDC.
TEXT> Well, I think there's a movement and there's a movement that's supported within the scientific community. And  in particular, if you're interested, there is an article in The Atlantic, which is a very progressive periodical. It's very well cited and researched, and it's called The Case Against Masks at School. And it's really kind of bringing to the forefront that we have to make a decision as a society as well. Is are we doing more harm than good? And it's this board's,  responsibility to kind of determine at some point whether we should give parents the option to decide whether there's more harm than good being served by masking their own children and with the incidents. I mean, kids are just not dying of this.  They're just not I mean, the incidence of of of mortality, the mortality and morbidity is just minuscule for children. And it has been the entire time, and it has been in Europe where kids have not been masked. So the question is, is why are we instead of why are we taking it away?
NEXT> Unidentified: Our next door neighbor has a nine year old girl that has got it three times, and she still has breathing problems. So it's not just a matter of death,

[17323-112] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; chair of the ad hoc school reconfiguration commit | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. Yes.
TEXT> I know historically, Dartmouth gave students down to do a free S.A.T. course a number of years ago. And the benefit of that was is that you had college students from Dartmouth saying this is really important. And, you know, being a young person to kind of speaking to a young person that they admire.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: I have that looked into tomorrow.

[9315-17] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yes, sir. Again. His thoughts? Punishment enough.
TEXT> So anyway, as I try to regain my composure. Pathway to Success program, we'll be hearing more of it. And to you all remember, gear up, New Hampshire.  Opportunity. It's a five year program where we hope that we will expose students to  the opportunities that are available to them after high school. We're not in the business of pushing students in the college, but we need to emphasize to them what the opportunities are and that one's parents don't have to be very wealthy, or just because perhaps someone in your family has not gone to college before or to a post-high school training doesn't mean that that's not an option for you. And we're starting this in the middle school.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Wow.

[9128-142] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - superintendent at [684] cre | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: I got paid it off the last time.
TEXT> So, just give me a second. When you have students, if students from another district  but are in your database, when they, if they, when they transfer or is that is that information able to transfer to the point of sale system.
NEXT> Nina Hansen: Are you talking about confidential, confidential information.

[38822-119] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Frank Romeo: this were to happen, we would would incorporate roughly 250 new students, right? The fourth grade going into the fifth, and the current theft, who are not used to getting up and being at school at 720 in the morning. So there's a thought there.
TEXT> What does that mean? What does that need to look at? You mentioned about the sort of the configuration of everyone emptying into that that area. I think a consideration is what do we do with the time in which middle school starts with the departure? How do we exit out of the building? How do we enter into the building? So those are logistical things to think about.  And I also think understanding and building the trust immediately, that is the that is going to be paramount in all of this. And that's why I'm talking about sending teams down to the elementary school to spend days with students, with teachers understanding what happens in classrooms and opening ourselves up to families at the elementary school so they can come in and ask questions so they can tour over the summer. Having a summer program that may be just an introductory program. So those are things just looking. I mean, right off the bat, I mean, there's so many. But that's a couple of things logistically just thinking about.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you.

[8948-313] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: LED screening policy update.
TEXT> Just to let you know, we are working on on this, I have a draft policy I sent you. I want the Valley Regional Hospital, the medical staff to to assist with editing it. I shared it with the City Council, just at FYI that we are moving forward with this. I want the school board certainly to weigh in on it, but what you received last night is a very rough draft. And I want to just streamline it and have this in place, working collaboratively with the city. So, so we can stay on stay on this and also to inform the community of the seriousness of this and be proactive to assist and all children.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm sorry.

[9406-462] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> It's so critical to partner with parents and the community. I think about like the conversations that we all have with kids, whether it's, you know, neighbors, kids on the sidelines at a football game or wherever you are, and you're hearing about something that they're dealing with at school and particularly at middle school, you go back to the brain development,  their emotional. They're upset about it. We're all we all just want to comfort them. But we also the more we understand about helping them make sense of it and what and empower them to what they can do about it and what you know they personally can can do is really important. There was an article that I read and we, you know, we were winnowing what we were going to send to you. But one of my favorite quotes, and one that didn't make the packet, was about how we ask students to put up with every day in their workplace, things that we wouldn't by saying things to them. And I mean we not just educators, but we parents, community and educators say things like, oh, just ignore it. And I think it is with good intention to help them become more resilient and to help them learn to deal with the things life is going to throw at them.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: But at the same time, we don't ignore those things. We've just learned how to deal with them as adults. So we have choices. So we need to be that

[11963-223] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Steven Horsky: On what.
TEXT> It depends on. So there are there are a couple of variables with that as well. So I've been having children who are going out really sick. We're also seeing some kind of a wicked cold going around. We're also seeing high fevers with belly aches. Believe or not, in my littles who I would swear testing positive and they're testing negative so you can't come back to school until you're 24 hours fever free. You know, off stuff.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I'm just looking for the average number of days.

[9268-169] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: And I realize that it's because we are looking at, distribution system is just here. It doesn't reflect well.
TEXT> And I've looked at specifically Lebanon and their administrators and staff, and they've got a lot more administrators than we do their budgets $10 million higher. Same number of students. But they've got more. More people more.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Fewer students.

[12366-353] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: And the we're still obligated to serve them until 21. And what what Jerry has seen and I've seen a few cases of two is the parents, once they reach that age of 18, say, I'm not going to care for my disabled child anymore.
TEXT> And then logically, and by law, Department of Health and Human Services has to step in and support that situation. But what we've seen time and time again is that Department of Health and Human Services has, in fact, failed to meet their obligation to support those adults in the community. And I've had several experiences where, I've had DC DHHS and Jerry mentions in this brief where DHHS is encouraging parents to push school districts to place their children residentially,  even though that's not the district's obligation. Our obligation is to provide them in education, right. So like a day placement, you know, so I think it's worth signing on. I think Mike is supportive of of signing on. The suggested donation is 500 to $1000 to help draft the brief. And I think the bottom line is it's just there's a benefit to having more districts sign on to this letter so long or short.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I have a couple of questions. So this is this is this doesn't affect students under the age of 18.

[15693-193] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - identified by office and by the chai | 2024-04-17
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> That's what I was thinking of it for ninth and 10th grade.  And then and then and I and I, as somebody who studied science, I hate this, but it's the only data we have anecdotal data, but it's just one of the there's so little opportunity to actually collect hard data. But,  we can receive that and pick that up from teachers who are working with those coaches. And,  we may even be able to get that from a student perspective over the course of a year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And how they see the.

[8873-82] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: bullying and harassment, instead of dealing with class cuts and Tardis, we were in classrooms doing observations. And so this this person handles a lot of low level stuff, and it frees up administrators to do. Educational leadership is really what the position is for.
TEXT> Absolutely. And and and it's even grown, you know, now with flex, this position helps to oversee attendance during flex time. You know, that position is vital to us reaching our attendance goals. That person is often the one making phone calls home to parents about a student being an ES or OS, and they've taken on a lot more of what what? Yeah, she's taken. Exactly. That's a great way to put it. She's taken it to the next level and the responsibilities are,  are heavier. And because our job is, is, is has gotten more difficult and she's really taken on a lot of that burden.
NEXT> Unidentified: So if I could.

[9248-411] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: What other surveys do we typically I can't think of any besides safe school.
TEXT> You know  that's a great question. I don't know the source of the law and I don't know what legislature legislative body moved this many times talking to legislators. Sometimes it could be a  matter that someone had a concern about, and they move and becomes a bill. It becomes the law. Frank, I. I cannot tell you what other surveys we've been involved with, but I can tell you this, working with the University of New Hampshire,  we have and still continue to work with them as far as,  student involved and  student dealing with traumatic experiences and,  and, and,  violent behavior and, and so as a result, working with University of New Hampshire, we are the impact that such as the green Dot and other programs are having  to reduce  that type of conduct. So there will be a survey of our high school students. We had our survey last year. We'll have another survey as we monitor the progress with the green dot.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: You may want to think about changing the wording. Then. When I read through it, I was thinking, well, they should this should say opt and opt out option. And

[12315-179] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1, former Claremont School Board member (self-I | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: I'll take Patrick's question now, and then we'll move on to.
TEXT> Thank you.  Patrick, Adrian, Ward one. And I just do it want to emphasize that if I hope the school board just will be conscious of if the public if you don't want the public to kind of speak to agenda items during the citizens comment, I think that totally makes sense. Just remember to  make don't forget about the asking if the public wants to make comments during the agenda  items. That's I just want to get some clarification because I think so. So I, I years few years ago, I worked at the bridge program at Newport Middle High School, and it was a alternative education. And I want to say it was kind of a reentry program. I'm trying to kind of get the idea of how this would compare to that. So we would take kids that were kind of an academic failure.  So  it sounds similar to this,  the, the but I guess the one thing I guess I was kind of trying to wrap my head around. So that was like one program. So we had kids eighth through, you know, kind of middle school in high school.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: But, it was a self-contained program. And the reason kind of bringing up is because a lot of these kids, you know, it's social, they're the issues are behavioral. You

[12005-140] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: This is the one.
TEXT> It should be the one with the class size configuration that. Yes. So if we pay attention to the third grade line and then we look at,  the class sizes of eight and eight, and then we have the other schools at 19 and 22 and then 17, 17 and 15. If we were to average out the class sizes, right, there is a position saved,  because you'd be reducing it or you could utilize that position elsewhere. So that's just one quick example because it's the easiest one to pick off. Now what I'm looking at is that if we did, the restructure is much as I appreciate the time that spent trying to do the two schools two through five, I think that I think the original intent was to to make it so completely streamlined that all the second grade students are learning the same third grade and so on and so forth, that I believe, was the original target and intent. When we began discussing this back in 2018. Right. So with that said, that's I. I'd rather put more focus on that plan. Let's get that plan really moving. Because the key thing is, is that my consensus of what I'm what I'm hearing is, is that it doesn't sound necessarily like we have a plan. Now, I know we're vetting stuff to develop the plan, but just right there, looking quickly, I can see a quick benefit.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: As much as I understand people aren't happy about the community school aspect of it, at the end of the day, do they want their children to get a better

[16786-72] Jeff Small | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (uncertain - no | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: would really like that we answered that program means a lot. And the other tech center classes, are they going to be open? Thinking about our seniors at juniors that are going to be pursuing a career here pretty soon? That's really all I know.
TEXT> I get to trust the the tech center. We have kids coming from Audi District that are going to be that are placed in this program. There's some programs that run in the text that are that aren't run at other centers. I haven't been directed from anyone from up above to address the center. So at this point, I don't see any changes in the tech center.
NEXT> Unidentified: And I just want to say playing sports helps to focus during the school year, and I bet it does for other athletes to being on the team helps me

[16477-95] Julie Spence | Project Architect, Lavallee Brensinger Architects (SRVRTC renovation f | 2025-04-16
PREV> Jay Doherty: how that could be renovated to become a more of a CTE program as we look at the future of the facility. So with those pieces, I'm gonna pass it off to Julie to talk a little bit about the next step we looked at.
TEXT> So as we mentioned, we did have a facilities committee that we were talking to and working with in this. And so we sat down and just sort of established what are our overall goals for this project. And obviously,  Michelle has walked you through the logic of what programs they would expand to. And, and so that's a priority, obviously expanding the CTE offerings. You guys want to have engaging, inspiring learning spaces. Let's get more of those. It's kind of the gist of it.  Update and revitalize the current programs. Make sure that they have everything that,  really makes their curriculum solid and then improve the security and supervision within the building.  Right now, people can walk in the front door and be intermingled with students without a checkpoint. So let's solve some of those issues that we have. And then obviously we've talking a lot about leveraging the state funding to support the project. So those are our goals. So the proposed this is a proposed floor plans.  Essentially what we're talking about is this space that we're in right here. We would, continue the corridor out to the back to have better access to the parking and  use this high base space for an industrial program such as small engine repair. It would. Require.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Can you go to the screen and show us where those.

[15413-68] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - Mike Koski says  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Kylie Plummer: Speaking on the college topic, I'd like if we could try and get more like college speakers to come down and talk to, like, all the grades about colleges. I think that would also be fit everyone.
TEXT> That is definitely something for a student council discussion.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay.

[8794-50] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Called The Pride.
TEXT> Of Claire. Yeah.  All right. So that's piece number one. Just. So along the lines of this banner.  We're also going to make sure that you guys will have a brick in the weight room with all the other bricks for the 2016 championship. And the reason I really think that's usually important. Being from Claremont, it's easy for me to do this. But you know, we have the oldest alumni association in the country and we really value our sports. We value our community for a reason because some of us leave and move back, some of us move, but usually everybody comes back sooner or later  to Claremont. And to me, the coolest thing is when you get to the gym and you see something you were part of and you guys are going to come back 48 years from now, 38 years from now. And I wanted something. So when you came back, not only would you see this, I wanted you to see your names. So behind them. So I made this for you guys to ultimately hang in the gym. What? It is a plaque with every single name on it, including Aidan. Yeah. So little lady. Yeah. You know, and, guys, I got to tell you, that was. That was the coolest story of all what you guys did for that little kid. And when you guys hosted him up when I was at the Monadnock game.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And I got to tell you, that was the best bicycle football game I've seen in my life, you know? But I wanted you guys to be able to come

[10294-106] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: toward the end of the third quarter, about to start the fourth quarter, which means we're in the home stretch. Life gets busier and busier for everybody in the next couple of months as the year winds down as summer sports and spring sports kickoff.
TEXT> And as we see the celebrations of student work across the district. So there will be lots of upcoming events, lots of fliers going out to folks. And just hopefully we can make sure to get the word out on all of those positive things well in advance. So that concludes my report this evening.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[38822-338] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center; chair of the T | 2023-02-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: for, revitalizing and improving this facility. Is that contingent on us being still partners with Newport and being part of the region ten agreement? To the best of my knowledge, yes. Yes. So we would have to be part of region ten in that realm.
TEXT> I think they would try to stymie us in some ways if we didn't. So I understand I've heard it 100 times. We would love to have health programs here. But that was agreement many years ago that was came up. And they have the health programs right now.  You know, I've worked on trying to improve the trades. We brought forward a couple of great programs that were low hanging fruit that were not very expensive to to start. So I think there's some great things we can still do as a committee. We will still need a committee as a renovation as we move forward with that. So I think keeping this group together, as,  Whitney said here, they're very active citizens that really want to see some good things happen. They find a lot of value. And I think a lot of people find value in what we do at the tech center. And I think the students that come here find value in it. They don't know it when they're here, but when they leave. And I've got alumni surveys to show that time and time again. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So are you suggesting we stay?

[10274-301] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Vice Chair | 2019-03-06
PREV> Jesse: I would.
TEXT> Think about doing away with the contract. I would consider, free and reduced lunch  and people that want to buy lunch,  get a bag lunch, a bag lunch that can be made at one central location, say the high school. You make the bag lunch. You get bus drivers in between their runs to deliver to the schools and those you know. The designer needs 30 lunches to provide for free and reduced. And for kids that purchase lunch, you get 30 bag lunches or 35, in case you need extras, or stock the fridge with some extra stuff. A nice healthy sandwich, salad, apple, a nice healthy bag lunch. And that's our lunch program.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's the nuclear option.

[9128-295] Chris Cantillon | District manager, Fresh Picks Cafe (attribution by elimination; ASR 'C | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: Of your head?
TEXT> I'm thinking like Kearsarge when we do, action stations there, we've had some of the culinary students come in and help with that. And it's just it's fun for them because, you know, they get to come out and do that in front of other students.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And that's kind of where in my head, we've got our culinary program here at the Tech Center.

[14833-24] Hannah Petrin | Student Representative to the School Board (chair: 'Hello, Hannah' [45 | 2023-01-11
PREV> Hannah Petrin: projects, and the National Honor Society has been repainting some of the words in the high school, which I didn't know what that meant at first, but it's like there's all the books that we read in high school and stuff like that, and they
TEXT> were painting on the walls like a while ago, I guess, but they, like, were starting to fade out and stuff like that. So you couldn't even read them very well. So they were repainting those. And the theater class is putting on a show either. I think it's either this week or next week. I reached out to a friend to try to get the days and information, but didn't hear back in time. So. And the winter sports are also going well at the high school, and the next Tech Center Vision Committee meeting will be held tomorrow night at 6 p.m.. Culinary. Culinary students are back in class and are planning the next Color Culinary luncheon for February 10th, 1130 to 1230. More details to come up by the end of January. Advanced manufacturing students are working with the engineering students on adding solar capability to our tech center. Bill camp trailer. Plumbing HVAC students are continuing to learn about boilers as they build and troubleshoot them. Building construction students are finishing up a shed and plan to start working on a small, run out horse barn. The tech center is planning at Spring Tech Center Tree Career Fair from Monday from May 11th, 2023. And I also just remembered, the student council  just hosted a, winter clothing drive throughout, like, the last month, I'm pretty sure.
NEXT> Hannah Petrin: And we just sorted through everything yesterday afternoon, and we had, like, four bags of, like, four huge garbage bags of clothes that we're going to bring to, baby steps

[16266-57] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-01-15
PREV> Mary Henry: be bad, but when you have the big ones all at once, you know that was a big thing with this board is trying to find a way to absorb this, because they feel it's important that our staff has paid for what they do.
TEXT> Is against their negotiating three large contracts in one year, which which should never happen. But that's where they landed, you know, so that that's a huge obstacle when you're looking at contracts. So now we all wear that and we're moving forward. It's like, okay, we're going to stagger them in some way because it's really difficult to work on a budget when you're inheriting the the three negotiations in one year. And that the same token, trying to find a way to provide the education that kids need. So we acknowledge that we're moving forward and now they're going to be staggered. We're not going to have all live rooms in one year because you know it. You can imagine the impact it does have on a budget when you're, you know, three of the largest contracts in one year. So we've resolved that moving forward. But the here and now, this is the reality. So that we have three 3 in 1 year.
NEXT> Mary Henry: So we'll be all in with all the contracts. It would be $0.89 to the tax rate. Again that's an estimate because our values can change which would then in

[13556-193] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-08-17
PREV> Unidentified: So so how do we get that person back up to say Kerry cuts? Because we get that person back up to full time within the budget and not disrupt the person we hired to back.
TEXT> So I can't speak to. So basically if they're if they're if they came in and as their they're out okay. Into in terms of how do we fill those sections right now.  And the most complicated situation is the middle school. But in the middle school  like like I said, they're backfilled, but the teachers are teaching one less class. They have a win.  You know  what? I need class in that the the dean. But the the all the teachers themselves are teaching. They have two preps where they're doing. They are also assisting with student interventions in. That's where the I can. It'd be much easier to show it graphically which I can't. Okay. So exactly who's going in and who's going out. But they they are all if they were on that list that I presented before, they are coming out those all those sections of the PhDs. So.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Can and maybe simple answer the difference between the dean of students for eighth grade and the eighth grade academic dean. What's the different role there?

[11963-144] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: HIPAA only. Only has to do with information from a healthcare provider to an insurance.
TEXT> Okay, I just wanted to double check because I would think that. And this is just I don't want us to get into a in a troubled spot, is what I'm trying to think of.  While asking the student, they they really don't have a legal authority to give an answer. So the only person we should be asking is a parent. It would be my opinion on that. It's no different than if the student was in trouble and we had to call the police. We can't really do a ton until the parents are notified.
NEXT> Ronnie: Yeah, but as a nurse, I'm asking you if you're vaccinated for your MMR. I'm asking you. You know, I'm getting your immunizations. And so it's along the same lines

[8433-363] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: 87 students for 6.5 million.
TEXT> And then you look at us and we have how many students for two point.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Eight.

[17291-323] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; chair of the ad hoc School Reconfiguration Explor | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. And so what what is your what is your expectation and timeline?
TEXT> I would like to have a fully fleshed out like feasibility study, walking into the next budget season. As a real option instead of, you know, we don't know anything. We haven't heard anything. Nobody's talked to us.  And it would be the will of the community, quite frankly. And if we could establish what benefits there are to kids and to our community, then I don't I don't know why we would avoid an opportunity cost like we would.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: One of my one of my concerns is it seems like there's a lot on the table right now. We have a reconfiguration and we have new staff coming in.

[9950-299] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Patricia Barry: the case for a lot of students. And so we have been allowing that at the high school. The difference at the all is that a student would have to earn that privilege in order to be able to use those devices in that way.
TEXT> I was actually going to get to the high school when I actually had that. One of my notes about the permit, teacher permission, I think that contradicts what we've discussed here in previous board meetings  as far as our, cell phone policy. And the reason I'm raising that question is, is because if we have an inconsistency, Miss Smith says it's okay, but Miss Jones says it's not okay. So therefore you're inviting the issues and the confrontation about getting these cell phones because it's okay here, not okay there. And I think that, the way the wording of the policy reads that during school time they should not be in use. So therefore, I think that the teachers  should not independently be able to authorize the use of cell phones during academic instruction times. And that goes for the high school handbook and any other handbook based off our policy. I don't believe that we need to get to the point where we're in this case, maybe we do need to take this the phones away for the day because it is an alternate program.  I have hope in our high school students, middle school students, and some of the elementary students won't be using their phones, but we I think we need to abide by our policy.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So with that said, what I would like to see is the correction, both in the high school and on this one, that the teacher doesn't have the option. There

[15336-125] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; NHSBA delegate - the chair names ' | 2023-10-04
PREV> Unidentified: Aye.
TEXT> I do not support. Number nine. The New Hampshire School Board Association of forms the qualification of school librarians to research and select appropriate digital printed material for school libraries, recognizing that marginalized groups have been historically underrepresented in school libraries, literary collections should offer students information that provides a balance of ethnic, political, religious, and cultural values. Further, library materials should represent diverse points of view, provide a global perspective, stimulate critical thinking skills, and meet the interest, abilities, learning styles, and information needs of the learning community. So this is  they the school, the school board association is not negative. They've proposed alternative language.  Where  they,  have adjusted the language. Basically, it says the same thing. Literary collection should represent. So they they've wordsmith that a little.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes.

[16213-163] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - HIGH confidence. Mary Henry hands h | 2024-12-12
PREV> Mary Henry: Yeah. Mr. Pratt yeah.
TEXT> So with that, you know, so that position you're talking about, this person went to the, actually she moved up within the s within the Su, so she went from the  assistant to the special student services coordinator. And then when the position opened up for the assistant to the superintendent, we moved her over there. So, so, so. And there was like a I think it was like a $20,000 difference in between where she was, what that position was budgeted for. It went from like 40 something to 60.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It didn't it didn't press. It was 47.

[9268-311] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: All right. Well, I'll.
TEXT> I'll take a motion to approve the Stevens High School student parent handbook.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Second.

[9790-205] John Tobin | Attorney, Claremont school funding litigation, retired from New Hampsh | 2018-05-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: The little that we're getting.
TEXT> Well there are three parts to the formula. And one of the parts that makes a real big difference to places like Claremont is being phased out. The the the other thing the state is doing their the state is counting on declining enrollments. They are counting on that. Well, if they have fewer kids than we don't have to send them as much money because the formula is based only on it's not based on actual costs. It's based on  enrollment figures only. One other thought I had that I think is important and that's, I would really urge you to also try to make common cause with the wealthy communities. When we did the trial, my, my part of it, we divided it up. We part of the trial was comparing a wealthy district and a property poor district to try to show the judge well, the difference it makes. And my, my pairing in the trial was Franklin and Guilford. And so I had I had teachers and school officials from both places come and testify and the at least the education people, a lot of other people in the districts that happen to be well off, they also get this. They also understand it's unfair. So to the extent that we can avoid a civil war based purely on who happens to have more property values, that would be good and make it again about fairness and collective responsibility.
NEXT> John Tobin: So when you reach out to people you know. Yes. Keen, but but Hanover, Lebanon, you know, find find the allies there. I'm sure there are allies there who would

[8761-71] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: You have the source of lead.
TEXT> Poisoning is not our water number one and two. Testing is the canary in the mind. You know, it's after it's happened and the damage is irreversible. We need to look. We need to move towards the strategies that are prevention. So your target this folder before I want to say someone around files it tomorrow morning. I'm just going to quickly and then I'll come to you. Mary show you what's in it on  the side where my business card is. If you'd like to reach out to me or send me your Christmas card. We do have all of our. The medical determination by community list is there. And that poster with the finger that I mentioned. But all of our divisions, fact sheets, including lead and children and lead in drinking water on that side. The other side are a lot of the booklets and information on renovating. Right. And the RR  law. But also I put in the two fliers which code maybe mistrusted in our two fliers, both for the landlord. What do we do when we find the hazards in your apartment,  as well as what are we for the tenant or the homeowner?
NEXT> Gail Gans: What do we do when we find the lead hazards in the home where a child has an elevated blood lead? So I just wanted to point those out as

[38822-287] Raquel | Ward 2; PTO president at Maple Avenue School (surname not captured by  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Scott Pope: Okay. Sounds good. Thank you.
TEXT> Two quick questions. Increase anywhere. Or cal or to,  a couple of questions. As far as athletics goes,  if we are  moving kids up and we play another school that doesn't meet that age group, I know in other programs those students can't play because we'd be putting, you know, different aged kids up against those students.  For example, my kids have done the Mini Cardinal  football program. Our fourth and fifth grade players can play. Our sixth grade players can't play certain games because of the age group of the other towns were playing. So that's one question as far as how will athletics work and  how will we determine can eighth graders play at middle school level? Because we technically would be playing other districts that would have those age groups playing. I guess another question of my own is that,  increasing class sizes. I don't know if you guys have been in in some of these classrooms we purchased with Covid money, new desks that have the chair connected to the desk when they're an odd, not even a trapezoid shape. I don't know what they are. I'm not a math teacher,  but, you. Know.
NEXT> Raquel: I don't know what they do. They aren't a shape that exists in the math world, but when you put them up together, you have corners that stick out or

[15357-384] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah. Okay. All right. Good enough.
TEXT> And also, if you modify ones that are more like the health exciting health opportunities again through the board, through the committee, through the visioning. But there might be some that are more advantageous for the region and the community for students. Yeah. Particularly health science. That's what I did.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah.

[9950-157] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' [42-43, 329]; 'Cary' [5 | 2018-08-15
PREV> Alex Herzog: I also know there's a real need. You know, I want to congratulate Kevin because the floors look great and he's we're ready for the school year and get really excited. And yeah. So I thank you concerned. But I think we can do it.
TEXT> Go ahead. Just another thing to add is we are in a year agreement with the Newport campus for the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center, and that agreement expires. Soon three years, within three years or so. So that's another factor in this conversation. As we look to draft a new agreement or choose to to have separate programs or whatever we we do in the future, that's an impact on what we do in a renovation project as well. And so just there are multiple factors that play into the, the best decision to be the deferment. And thank you for the question of do we need to consider a larger period of time? Will connect. And we you know, Alex's has hit the ground running for sure.  And so just to to map it out and see how much information can he actually absorb in any given time. So far, it's been a ton.  And so I think that the more he gets comfortable in his role when the school year starts and students come in and he can start having those conversations directly with students to about, what do you want to see and start integrating himself with other organizations across the community. And we have a new principal at the middle school.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And so what's that relationship going to look like? All of those factors will play into a more informed decision about where we go and when we go there. And

[23815-7] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: giving back to the community that raised him as a devoted leader at the American Legion. He mentored our youth by connecting them with meaningful local volunteer work, instilling in them the same deep respect for Claremont that he carried every day in the classroom.
TEXT> Mike was a truly exceptional math teacher, patient, compassionate, and deeply connected to his students. Mike had an extraordinary gift for reaching the most reserved kids and instilling confidence. He was well liked by his students, many saying he was their favorite teacher and was held in the highest regard by his colleagues. Mike Richmond was a remarkable educator and human being, and he will be missed beyond measure by the six staff, his students, everybody at Stevens High School in the entire Claremont community.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you that Michael Richmond died the couple of weeks ago. A current staff member at Stevens High School and we thought was really important to acknowledge his his devotion

[15444-648] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; finance/budget subcommittee member | 2023-12-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: You could save 50%, you know, average. So more.
TEXT> So a worst case scenario. We're saving 50% per student if we can bring them back to district I guess that's what I'm looking at, right? Am I accurate in that assessment?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yes. That's conservative okay.

[10694-153] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> Then I just had a. Quick thank you for addressing the special needs of accelerated students that I think is a positive thing that we acknowledge is that there's there are special needs that haven't been met in our community. And it's great to hear that that's going to happen. And also the addressing the inequity in school resources and services. And I would like you to speak a little bit to the class, the average class size, because as a as a parent, I would want my child to stay in an eight child class.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh.

[12204-26] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: half a kiddo who's a special needs kiddo. We have to pay up a certain amount of dollars once it goes above three times the average student cost, we get a reimbursement from the state, and it goes about ten times the average student cost.
TEXT> We get more money back from the state. So this is in effect  a protection on the very costly of our of our special needs kids. And we're anticipating that to be reasonably flat from one year to the next, as we are on our Medicaid billing that we receive on Medicaid, what we plan would we take all of these, which I just talked about, and compare it to the budget and say, okay, the budget is is is at the 33 million 778 once we utilize all of these other sources, the rest of it needs to be raised from us, the taxpayers of Claremont, which is that first line item, $16,305,917. And as you can see, it's down by $732,000. What we do with this and the impact on the tax rate. And if we can go to the next slide. So we have the total budget, which from the first page to 37,000,002, 43 and 25, we take out from there our grant funds, food service, the  federal grants and the adult Ed, which leaves from general fund only to 33,000,007 7825 and if you go from page page you can see where these are coming from. The non-tax revenue 17,000,072.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The fund balance are basically the surplus from this year which goes into next year, 400,000. The 16,305,000 917 is what we're raising from local from local taxpayers. This based

[10942-313] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to. Took from, a fall mountain. I think it's just the most brilliant document I've seen around in terms of planning purposes. So we called Lori and she sent it right to us. Have at it. And we've shared stuff the other way as well.
TEXT> We use the same format,  but the information. That you see. It pertains to our, our district, of course, and all the all the items such as these here actually link you to something. So  if you go on to this site. This is the you know, this is the guidance book that we, we refer to  the state guidance. So you click on that, it brings you to that book. If you click on these, it'll bring you to what the the model will look like for that for that grade. And as you go as you go further down, there's, you know, it goes over each thing, what each one looks like. And you do have them in your pocket and they are available online to look at as well. But as you go further down there's the staff, what the staff protocol would look like. And you click on that link and it pulls up their form, the student one. You click on the individual school and they'll link up the one for the school. And so it just tells you what what school would look like when you come back in the fall.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And the beauty of it, I think for those we have struggled with writing presentations, documents and things like that, and it changes within a couple of days. So you

[12315-188] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The only thing that we're talking about, the local budget to Miss Crawford's point before is there was the restoration of the CTE director and a, a, a a counselor. That is where we feel the best bang for the buck is for the counselor.
TEXT> I'll let them speak about that as well  in, in,  in the report. But because those are the students and we also have another part of this that I apologize for,  but I don't because we love it. But the is is how we're going to,  also do that in the schedule for next year to start for the fall that we'll talk about in the existing schedule while we budget for the for the other one. But I would like to have Mr. Pratt come up now, if, if you don't mind, Chris, just to to talk about kind of the parallels and, and also to talk about specifically we have a similar act. We already have a structure that will talk about but also the, the alt program that we're trying to get back to look at that, that dropout non complete rate as well okay.
NEXT> Christopher Pratt: Good evening everybody. Say how. Happy amen to be here. And I'm really looking forward to finishing this year and moving on to the next. The students, the staff everyone

[16253-333] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: we have 23 identified students in an additional 20 students have been brought in to help those identified students meet their goals. So for all intents and purposes, although we have a total of 43 students in the program, the program exists for 23 students.
TEXT> So the number of almost a half $1 million serving 23 students strictly out of local dollars,  local tax dollars when it was in  a program that couldn't be accessed by every public school child in the community. Simply just didn't seem fair. And didn't seem, an appropriate way to use those dollars. Our other options to get similar reduction in benefit would to be removed. The instructional coaches, which we put in, and the curriculum director.  That would roughly their salaries would be roughly about the cuts that we would need to make to get to that 5% number. And we just felt that that is completely flies in the face of what we're trying to achieve. Additionally, I think the one thing that really stuck out to me,  I have to admit, when I initially, Suggested cutting the program or which we have been talking about for a number of years, I had a bias towards removing the program because I always felt it was very  an unequal program, unfair the way it was set up. So  I kind of went on a deep dive mission, and I did a lot of reading, and, and I actually came out feeling stronger about my, my decision to, to look to, to,  not offer those services anymore.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The data is there's some compelling data, but there's equally compelling data about the fade of the benefits of preschool programs on all levels. A lot of the data has

[11963-483] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-10-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: right from the heart of the classroom, seeing the professionalism of the folks that we have. So I just wanted, wanted to say that and we we talked about it and I almost, I almost forgot it. And that was Cassandra Lockwood and Joan Fontaine.
TEXT> So I want to just piggyback on that. I was watching the news and there was a, a PTO somewhere that,  bought a vending machine that was designed to then books and,  kids that met expectations within the school were given tokens. And when you had so many tokens, you could go to the machine and buy buy a book. So I was wondering what did become because I don't think anybody I don't think anybody had an issue with.
NEXT> Unidentified: The.

[15253-79] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-16
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: Yeah.
TEXT> As I read through the middle school handbook, I noticed there were a lot of different types of programs,  during advisory, some here, some there. And I'm wondering, is the idea of bringing the restorative justice from 6 to 12, let's say. Is that another add on or are you looking to kind of streamline so that students understand a consistency all the way through? As I read the elementary handbooks, I noticed that they have a consistent solid,  and the name escapes me. Responsive. Yeah. Responsive classrooms. Thank you. I had it in my school. I should know it. So I'm wondering if you are  working with people 6 to 12 to have that be something. Of course it has to broaden as the students get older, because they're more independent in their thinking and the types of decision making and consequences. But having it be something that is built upon as the students go through, rather than having a myriad type number of programs.
NEXT> Courtney Steele: So I will say the advisory piece is completely separate. Advisory is first thing in the morning with our students. That is about making relationships and connections with teachers and

[12115-171] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents contract summari | 2022-01-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So what I'm hearing you say is we're not collecting money now.
TEXT> We are not collecting money from students. We are submitting to the USDA, and they are providing us with whatever the price is that's provided for lunch and breakfast.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So that's where the money is going, is we're not collecting it sounds like that's.

[16408-52] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: been doing this for 31 years. In the last five years, it's been a huge shift in what we're seeing in regards to social emotional. And I just don't think that, you know, schools are equipped to deal with everything that's going on in schools.
TEXT> Now. I compare it to at one point is that,  people used to send their kids to private schools to get their whole  education, educate the whole child. And I think that's that's something that public schools are, you know, we need to do if we're going to move forward. But getting the resources not just for educators and administrators, but for parents and community, those back to what you're saying. We had more information on how to deal with these things we were trained to deal with. It's going to go a lot farther. So I appreciate what you were saying.
NEXT> Ashley Goff: My name is Ashley Goff. I have a son who is a sixth grader at CFS, and I have a freshman year and junior year. No it's not. And I

[17397-404] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (fragment inside his own sentence about | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Jason Bonneville.
TEXT> Yeah. Jason. So he of course, he did his research, right. So he wants to, they see much nicer, and they're a little cheaper for the, for the upkeep on them. It's very nominal. So he wants to do those all here.  And also at the high school. He'll put those two in there with the idea of slowly as the year end of year, go to the same thing. It just seems like it'll be much more time efficient. Sometimes I have to. It takes me a few minutes to get through the camera, go through it, try and get a good camera shot, different angles  and a quick shout out to Shane Taylor, who knows every single student by the way they walk. So I can just say, hey, who is that and give me them there brother, sister and all that.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Good questions from the board for Doctor Harrington.

[38822-127] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: school to a high school, what's here or anywhere else that now the teachers in the building so we can align our curriculums more, we can, we can look at where they end up and where they begin now, because I know that's a lot.
TEXT> Every year we have those transition meetings with middle school and high school, and a lot of times they're still, you know, we we think they should be going in a certain academic area, but it just doesn't match up. So it allows to bridge that gap of having the eighth grade in the building.  And, and having more, more resources for access to the high school teachers in the middle school teachers,  some of some of the cons it's it'll be, you know, if we move to this direction next year, that means half the school really is going to be middle school students with a in, you know, coming up to the middle school, you know, so those there's going to be a lot of unknowns there.  But one of the other best things I think we have is our upperclassmen student population. In the short time I've been here and I've been in a lot of high schools, I think the biggest effect we're going to see for the eighth graders coming in is the role models and the examples that the upperclassmen will set for the eighth grade students.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And we have a tremendous student body. And, I'm proud of where they are and where they continue to grow. And I think just having the eighth graders see that

[9586-358] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presides from the first agenda item; sup | 2018-01-31
PREV> Unidentified: So it's a.
TEXT> Great winter opportunity for students who don't aren't a traditional athlete like a basketball player.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I'm not opposed by just knowing the budget situation as it is. I want to make sure that it's not any more stress on.

[17300-77] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: I mean I'm just saying no, no.
TEXT> So, so in my, in my current superintendency. So first of all when I. Well, no, it's a good question when I went there. Alderman Bart's had had three superintendents when they hired me. Two towns, three superintendents. This is a very New Hampshire way of doing things.  In the last 20 years, as student enrollment in New Hampshire public schools has declined by about 20%, there's been an explosion of additional source. It defies logic, really? It doesn't make any sense. But that's what's happened. I went to Alton, and Barnes did, originally on a two year agreement with the school board to help them with some strategic planning and run one of their three schools as a part time superintendent. I was writing my doctoral dissertation. At the time. I thought it would be a really good way to get the time to do it, and it was great. They asked me to work on a couple of strategic problems, and one of them was they wondered aloud in one of my interviews, do you think we could just have one superintendent instead of three? And it was all I could do just to not laugh out loud. Right. Of course. I think you could have just one superintendent instead of three.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: I have 1300 kids. This isn't even a very big school system. And you have three schools. This is eminently reasonable. It took two years to write to work with.

[9385-541] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: We would get about 8000.
TEXT> On that one kid.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Because once you get over ten times the the amount, which would be about 100 and 5050 500, you get 100% supposed to get 100 reimbursement. Okay.

[10012-104] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Jason.' [94] -> [95]; 'Jason, a | 2018-09-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: About a $13,000 swing.
TEXT> And you know I understand mistakes get made, but that's a rough one. It's kind of disappointing. I. I know there's a lot of kids who,  probably would have benefited from this, so, It's a little sad.
NEXT> Keith Pfeifer: Under this plan B that Mike described. If you continue with the program under plan B, we anticipate the cost of the district of being about $10,000, 10,005 for the

[16371-332] Frank Sprague | School Board Vice Chair | 2025-03-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: That just.
TEXT> Couple quick comments. First one for Chris. One of the things that's going on, as we all know, our executive orders coming out of Washington.  Yeah. And, I was looking at the one that designated, English as the language of the United States. And as I read through that, it looks as if that executive order suspends a Clinton era  requirement that schools provide services for  non-English speaking students. Now, I don't know what what the trickle down effect of all this is going to be and how it's going to actually pan out. But I guess what I'm going to do is I'm going to urge you to, when you meet with your fellow superintendents,  to try to. Pass it out, parse it out and figure out so you can keep us informed as to what's going on.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: With absolutely executive. I think, as we all know, there's a lot going on at the federal level that does trickle down to the states. So the superintendent association keep

[9631-133] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named in this segment; | 2018-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: well. Teachers are also looking at their data, their classroom assessments, you know, and trying to determine, okay, what are we getting accurate data from I ready? I think we are how do we adjust everything? I could go on. Is that enough? Okay. Yeah.
TEXT> So, working with Amanda Ahrens, our English department. Has had a number of days being able to have access to her. And they've really been focusing on how to bring writing more into their daily curriculum. So it's not just  slap an essay down, grade that compare it. It's really taking ten, 15 minutes every single day to do writing and how to do that without feeling like you're compromising the rest of your lesson plan. That's been very helpful. They're working on common assessments and rubrics, and they're working  together as a team to calibrate how they grade. So, you know, often you can look at a piece of writing, which can be very subjective. Is that what is a p? What is a w d in writing? What does that look like? And making sure everybody's on the same page, talking the same language  in math? In a future school board meeting, will be bringing the new program of studies forward to you. And a lot of this data has informed us as to the different kinds of things we need to offer for students as far as elementary, not elementary, but more rudimentary math classes as you were asking about earlier. Frank math once skills one and two more sections of that pre-algebra English workshop.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And we're now offering both English and Maths at prep classes, where they're actually going to go to a quarter long class to be prepared for SAT, both in math

[8162-65] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-02-03
PREV> Dan Sherry: programs. We're in year two of a brand new math program, and we're starting to get numbers like this. And there's nothing brighter than what the future is going to be for these children as they keep moving through, and we're very excited about that.
TEXT> So I can't tell you how exciting this is. And tonight isn't about public relations. Tonight's not about wow, look at us. Tonight is about measurable progress. We had a commitment. We had a focus, and we're starting to see it. We're starting to see the results as measured by students. So, you know, we've talked about Rock the Read at Stevens High School. Well I think we're going to talk about Claremont rocking now. And I think we're rocking because of the leadership, because the instructional staff and most importantly by the students. So when we talk about early learning PK to two, this isn't going to be an innocuous we're going to continue with an intense investment in pre-K to grade two doesn't mean grade 3 to 12. We're going to get the leftovers, but it does mean we must be sure that the foundation of a little boy or girl is solid, rock solid for their future education. And if it's not, the gaps start. And many times those gaps in are closed. So my compliments to the elementary staff are very, very pleased and proud of what we've accomplished.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But our feet are not on our desk and we still have a lot more to go. And I would like to invite Paulette Fitzgerald, principal of Claremont Middle School,

[15311-313] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Most states have.
TEXT> So they do. Yeah. Exactly. But something like it okay. So if I, if a child or a family moves from one state to another are the credits, will it be a problem transferring the credits like.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's going to be sometimes. But that's it doesn't have a lot to. So in Claremont and other places I've been to. So sometimes you get kids from other countries

[9171-401] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [185], [431]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Job right.
TEXT> Well done kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yep. Thanks, Tom.

[7408-58] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [17], [201], [511]) | 2015-03-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: Anyone else you would like to come forward for citizens comments? Then we'll close citizens comments and move on to the action items that we do have, which are a resignation acceptance.
TEXT> Yes. In your packet is a resignation from Aaron Cinco. Manny Cinco Manny is completing his second year as principal of the Bluff Elementary School. Very impressed by the work he has done. Working with the faculty,  working with the parents, working with the students.  Mr. Cinco,  has relocated and will be accepting a position in the Lebanon  School district in one of their elementary schools. Sorry to see him go, but wish him and his his family and  a new Cinco Marty going to be born into the world, perhaps in a month or so. So wishing him all very well as he goes a little north, much closer to his home.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Yeah.

[10722-111] Gloria | Public commenter, Ward 3 (moderator 'Gloria' [240]; surname not audibl | 2020-02-01
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Anyone else wishing to speak in favor or against this article? Gloria et your name and.
TEXT> Ward three.  Thank you. I'm sorry. Apologize. My question really goes to the special a, I guess. Confused. I know we have to provide special aid, but there seems to be a lot of money allocated for this. And I guess my question is we're expecting to draw other people or other students with special needs to our community.  So are we going to be charging tuition for them to be coming here, or is this just going to be paid for by the state? And if we don't get if we're checking, if we don't get the tuition, we anticipate, isn't that going to be kind of a  the taxpayers are going to be asked to pay for that. That's my question.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Go ahead. If you want to answer her.

[9357-166] Scott Pope | City Councilor; tech center instructor (addressed as 'Councilor Pope'  | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Councilor Pope.
TEXT> Yes, I'd like to speak to that. And thank you, Bernie, for actually leading me to something I talked about today.  I'm going to go back to when Congresswoman Kuster was here, my student who was there to Cota Aldridge, he mentioned something. He said that right now he is training for the jobs that aren't even there yet. And I think people who are here remember that he's been working hard at 3D printing and also starting to study the 3D printing,  not just with what I have, but the technologies of metal, 3D printing, and even talking about how they are now making heart valves out of pig cells and things like that. He's really kept up on this, and boy, he would like me to fill a room full of 3D printers and five and six x of ink machines. So Mr. Fulton mentioned advancing technology, and I actually had this conversation with some employees today  out on a work site. And I'm going to tell you this right now, the days of one person sitting there putting a flint in a bit lighter and that being their only job.
NEXT> Scott Pope: Those are done even in China. So those days are coming back and the person who puts the top on it, you get the idea there. And so Welland is

[8258-314] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-03-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: So if you're looking at the self-contained classroom that has 12 identified children, it's 12 identified.
TEXT> Children would need any.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: In the morning, 12 in the afternoon. If you're looking at the classrooms of 15, you're looking at a total class size of 15. So you're looking at roughly 7

[11007-67] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-10-07
PREV> Unidentified: No.
TEXT> And these are new. We just received the men. We had ordered them back in April. I believe it was. And they were back ordered, so we ordered, I believe, 12. I think we have 6 or 8. Of them that have arrived. The custodians have gone through training on them. Prior to this, they were doing it with spray bottle and wiping things down or spray bottle and letting it sit. Because the, the solution that we're using needs to sit for ten minutes in order to, in order to adequately sterilize. But, no, my mike's not on. Usually I don't have to do that. I'm sorry.  Along with this, when we get to this concept of deep cleaning, and as Mike had said, that's just it's a hard concept because we are cleaning every day. We're cleaning during the day when the when the students and the staff are in the building, we're cleaning high touch points. We're being sure that we get into bathrooms at least once an hour and making sure that they're clean, that they're refilled.  Again, we're hitting high touch points. We also provide a cleaning products and towels to all of our classrooms and all of our teachers. Some of them are more comfortable in utilizing the product than others, because the product that you use to kill a virus is classified as a pesticide.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Whether it be Clorox or whether it be the the the stronger product that we use, the A 64 product. So we have cleaners in there that are just to

[15585-194] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; chair of the Finance Committee - C | 2024-02-21
PREV> Mary Henry: They get bills every week.
TEXT> I think that's one of the, the drawbacks to having a and you know, fresh picks or  any of those companies, the Abbey Group. When you've got the old days when we had Mrs. Gregory there and Mrs. Bastian, you know, and you got the person that's making the collections looking right at you, saying, as far as the kid goes, it was different.
NEXT> Mary Henry: And the thing is, the federal government doesn't allow us to do it now. Yeah. I mean, that's really what it comes down to, is we can't we can't do

[9098-167] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: It is truly for the for this these.
TEXT> We're talking about, you know these this band of kids with emotional disabilities here. It is that disability which is preventing them from accessing learning and their trauma. So it's not just the disability, but it's all the trauma they're experiencing just so their double double whammy.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And kudos for this finally being a conversation.

