[9171-240] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (referred to as 'Pat' [101], [323]; pre | 2017-06-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: So you can figure out what.
TEXT> Absolutely. I mean it when when we're able to sit down and dig drill down to those depths, it's going it has the capability of showing us exactly what each and every student needs to be working on, where they are, what they need to do. It's it's fantastic tool. Thank you. Welcome, doctor.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Is this may be two too soon to kind of answer but just wondering what what estimate of students how many students do we have roughly who need I guess

[9171-242] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: intervention for like reading and math. Like not necessarily not not necessarily for say, a student needing help with with geometry, but students that really kind of need the more foundational math skills and reading skills. I think in order to do the program studies.
TEXT> So I can get that information, I don't have that information off the top of my head. I, the way those reports are pulled are by building. And  I'm going to show you a couple of graphs in just a moment  that look at the  elementary wide data for that. And you can kind of see what our intervention, our significant intervention,  some of you may be familiar with tier three,  looks like that population compared to those students who are, you know, at or above grade level right now. So I can show you a quick visual of that, but I would have to I don't want to give you numbers off the top of my head because I don't have them grounded.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: I guess I was interested in kind of knowing more about how during flex at Stevens, how we're intervention for. I think that's groups whether I didn't know whether it

[9171-246] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (referred to as 'Pat' [101], [323]; pre | 2017-06-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Do they have to do they meet with that, their teacher or do they, do they have other places where they can go for.
TEXT> Well, sometimes, again, if that's why we've been able to do. Far more work with our identified students because they're attached to a case manager and do the special ed, staff that we have that next step. That's what I'm talking about. That intermediary level of remediation is figuring out the who and the what, where and the when for how we can address and get the help for those students.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So the tool gives us the information we need, but we haven't been able to access the information yet to make decisions.

[9171-258] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: the spring reading fall to spring and school B and the last one is school C fall on the left, spring on the right. Remember, red is good. And readings. We'll see. So just think that's a nice visual representation that we are moving kids.
TEXT> Kids are growing. We may not be deemed proficient in all areas yet or our, our kids. That might not be, but we are certainly moving kids and we're we're headed toward that target.  So if there are no other questions and we'll move on.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I just want if I can, Brian, what you've seen here, in summation, one of the problems is we want to get it. We want to get there quickly with

[9171-273] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; answers roll as 'Brian Rath' [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Aye.
TEXT> Opposed? Great. Thank you. Now, back in public session. We are on to food service vendor selection. First part is the recommendation from the Food service Committee.  We we met before this meeting, and everybody has, the proposal evaluations  and a lot of the a lot of it's very close.  Believe it's from the feds or the state where this is the process, where each individual is individual parts have to have numbers or values assigned to them for the committee. And we did that. And as you can see, most of them were very close.  Cafe services. The the return was just a little bit, a little bit higher  than Abby Group, which is why they got more points.  Innovation, marketing promo cafe services was five. Abby Group was ten.  The group felt that,  marketing and  promotion and dealing with the kids  was was a little bit better. Like what they saw.  The other was food quality and portion size. And we went into that, pretty heavily. And people went to different, went to the different different schools that have the different groups.  And. There was a large focus. And I think the board has felt that as well, that there's there's a desire to have more,  more nutritional servings. We'd like to see some farm to school program, locally sourced items. And Abby Group definitely,  definitely did that better.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Recommended staffing is a little bit different. Abby Group was recommending one extra staff person at the middle school, which is why the difference is there. So the point totals

[9171-315] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [172], [293], [43 | 2017-06-21
PREV> Chris Irish: But I'm sure we could find others that switched from Abby to that is a preference.
TEXT> What I'm trying to say. No, I don't believe it's a preference issue. I believe that people want quality goodness for their children over the long haul, and they believe that the extensive work that everyone did on the committee  shows. Granted, yes, it might be a little bit more, however. However, in the long run, when children have access to be able to eat as much as they want off a salad bar in the town of Claremont, that is a win. And as far as far as as the commitment to Abby Group saying, we're going to go out in the community to we're going to work with the community. We have programs and seeing the just the difference in foods and just seeing the difference in management, it it's why it was scored that way.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: There was a lot of there were there was actually a lot of frozen food with the the fresh cafe services schools.

[9171-336] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; answers roll as 'Brian Rath' [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: I guess I want to see what it was. You must have seen something like kids.
TEXT> Kids were involved. Some of the questions that were asked of Cafe Services staff.  It didn't seem to be the time to be able to get the kids involved or it was too cumbersome. Whereas Abby Group really makes that effort to to have the kids  be involved in, in the food service plan, whether it's helping to prepare food or or or whatever, you know, they really help them. They let kids take ownership of it.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: They put them on shelves, hats and put them in and let them be a part of it. However, I can answer another question for you. One young lady stated

[9171-342] Unidentified | Unidentified - teacher who speaks on i-Ready [168-170] and as a food s | 2017-06-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I.
TEXT> Think we're missing the point a little bit. The the goal is to provide the healthiest food. That and most nutritional food that we can for our students. And as a committee, we we went to many different schools. We went to elementary schools, we went to high schools. And  that was our decision. And it was unanimous.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And yeah, and I did forget to say that the committees.

[9171-349] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; answers roll as 'Brian Rath' [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: a month with the presentation. But after, you know, when I paid more attention and explored it a little bit, I think that's what I was like, Holy crap, this is not okay. So you said at first I just backed you up on it.
TEXT> And I guess the the evaluations, I think. Obviously that the board can, can go a different way if that's what they want. But I think it's good at, at showing that budget is the, the highest individual, but it's only a part.  And I think that's important. Our kids deserve quality.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[9171-373] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [172], [293], [43 | 2017-06-21
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Right now. But we don't want basically that we can do that. We can talk about that after. Okay. I want to leave it as five because I don't want to do this again in three years. I'd rather do it again in five.
TEXT> The difference is too, is you're looking at we we instrumented so many great things already. We've got a five year program, to to bring our children to a better level of education. Let's give them the meals they need to bring them up to that education too. And we have the option right now today to do that.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: But I don't know if I'm jumping the gun, but I'd like to move that. We accept the committee's proposal of Gabby Brewer.

[9171-583] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [172], [293], [43 | 2017-06-21
PREV> Chris Irish: As a citizen, you have no idea what that other guy is doing on the other end of the computer or phone. I've always had an issue that if you're not here, you're not here.
TEXT> We're making way too many major decisions for the lives of the children in the community and the taxpayers at all. And I think that if you're going to be voted in, you need to be here.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9171-641] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: So school lunch program meal chargers.
TEXT> Now this this is an important policy. Not that the others aren't important, but this is this is something new. Districts are required now by the United States Department of Agriculture regulation to have a policy in place on meal charges and how students will be treated who do not have cash, a check or a positive balance in their Milica. Now, that's not an issue in Claremont. According to Carol Gregory. It's been an ongoing practice, but it's not in writing. We follow this, but it's not in writing. Now we're putting it in writing. Districts provide some ability to charge to ensure students have a meet to the district must provide a student a meal. That doesn't mean that the school district now is paying for all children and that lunch is free. There's been some misinformation out there.  So that's important. School districts will make every reasonable effort to inform parents of the policy, and that no student will be subject to different treatment from the standard school lunch meal or school cafeteria procedures. I am I made a note to myself that when I get back from a little break in mid-July  to start developing information that will be sent out to parents so they not only will have information, but also sensitizing them so we can increase parents awareness that their children or they are not going to feel stigmatized if they're having some fiscal challenges.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: No child should be impacted as far as nutritious meals because of some financial challenges. It's where the family is at this moment.

[9171-642] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: to start developing information that will be sent out to parents so they not only will have information, but also sensitizing them so we can increase parents awareness that their children or they are not going to feel stigmatized if they're having some fiscal challenges.
TEXT> No child should be impacted as far as nutritious meals  because of some financial challenges. It's where the family is at this moment.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But.

[9171-644] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: But.
TEXT> We all meals only the lowest cost meal. However, these alternative meals will also be available for all of the children, so it's not going to be. And I'm making this up two pieces of bread, peanut butter sandwich and a milk. There you go. Because you don't have any money. No,  that's not appropriate unless that is one of the choices, right?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes, sir. Right.

[9248-34] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: support them. They are residents of Clermont. We support them every way we can, and they are entitled to certain opportunities, such as extracurricular participation or even a course such as a science course that may be very difficult to take place in the home.
TEXT> The other  item I'd like to talk about is before you, a two sided green sheet of paper.  Crystal Simons, our school resource officer,  has believe this is the third year in a row.  Right on the run, a program for students called project Red and blue. And last night, there was an end of summer program where students and parents  with the the teachers  of this program had a  cookout at the middle school and a celebration with several, several slides. The reason I wanted to  talk about this tonight is that we have a. Most of the students were incoming sixth graders from our three elementary schools and the Unity Elementary School and three middle school students who are also part of the group.  There is no cost to the students.  There is a solicitation of funds from businesses who support this,  and also the provide stipends for the teachers involved. But what remarkable about these young  boys and girls  is, is their activities.  And if you look on the first page, the classroom day consists of building skills that help them to develop into successful young adults. Collaboration, team building. Leadership skills, self-reflection. Self-awareness. Confidence. Perseverance, mindfulness of how their choices affect others,  as well as take tackling challenges and analyzing program problems rather.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And what was interesting to listen to Krystal last night is that she was discussing how the students had grown over the summer, and obviously there's there's recreational activity, rock

[9248-35] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: first page, the classroom day consists of building skills that help them to develop into successful young adults. Collaboration, team building. Leadership skills, self-reflection. Self-awareness. Confidence. Perseverance, mindfulness of how their choices affect others, as well as take tackling challenges and analyzing program problems rather.
TEXT> And what was interesting to listen to Krystal last night is that she was discussing how the students had grown  over the summer, and obviously there's there's recreational activity, rock climbing, whitewater rafting, adventure park,  to mention a few. And there were some terrific slides of our students. I told them  the students and their parents, I was going to talk about them tonight. I attended the celebration, and it was just just mazing to see  these incoming students and and three of our middle school students,  their pictures and the slide presentation and also a conversation about what they had done this this summer. But the one thing at the second page, the  paragraph halfway down community service. This year, we assisted in the summer cleaning and painting of CMS. Students were able to see that there are many small actions can have a big impact on a community. It was calculated that all of the students working together saved the maintenance staff 70 hours of work. They're also very proud of themselves, and it was really quite something to see them involved with  brightening up the school as well  with the painting.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So talk about our young children. Talk about elementary school and middle school students giving back to the community, not only acquiring some lifelong skills, but also community service. So

[9248-36] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: community. It was calculated that all of the students working together saved the maintenance staff 70 hours of work. They're also very proud of themselves, and it was really quite something to see them involved with brightening up the school as well with the painting.
TEXT> So talk about our young children. Talk about  elementary school and middle school students giving back to the community, not only acquiring some lifelong skills, but also  community service. So I just wanted to publicly acknowledge  these young  students. Crystal Simons   as well as  the parents  who  participated last night. It was a great celebration of Claremont. You can go online, there is a website  and it project Red and blue. If you go online, there is a website and you'll be able to see some additional information and visuals  about the accomplishments. So  I told them that CCTV was going to televise this, and I told them it's going to be  played  again and again as as school board meetings are. So I just wanted to take a minute.  Before the meeting get started, to acknowledge these students and to acknowledge  this wonderful program, project Red and blue. And and I told the students in closing, I said to the students, we really measure our district not by what the adults do, but what students do. And these students certainly did provide a clear measure of the Claremont community. So congratulations to them and my thanks to Crystal Simons. That is it, sir.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I wanted to piggyback on that real quick. It was just announced today that the coach of the Hampshire Strine football team announced captains, and Richard Bell is one of

[9248-46] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Benoit'); later a Claremont Schoo | 2017-08-02
PREV> Jason Benware: math wrong. We are $2,451 higher at the high school level. So my math is going to be a little off. However, that being said, I tried to call the saw today to get the numbers of how many kids were actually in each school.
TEXT> I wasn't able to get Ahold of them. However, I got on to the public school review and I was able to find pretty accurate numbers for all the kids that are in our schools. So roughly, there are 878 kids in our  elementary schools seem about right, 304 desired, 227 in bluff and 347 in Maple. Give or take. Whoever's moved out of town, there's 399 at the middle school is 572 at the high school. Based upon those numbers on those variances, I multiplied the numbers out. And just if we were just average versus what we are right now, we're over $2.5 million, sort of over where the average is.  On that note,  I then we have 685,000,651 in change in our tax rolls. So taking that down per thousand and multiplying it into that 22.5 million, somewhere around $3.3 $0.61 more higher based on being above the average for educating our children. I don't know why we're higher. I know that other towns that are  roughly the same tax basis, several towns are considerably lower than we are. For instance, Franklin, Franklin, New Hampshire, there are smaller on the tax roll. They're about, There are 524 million. So they're slightly smaller than we are. But there,  average cost educated child at the elementary level is 10,232. Their middle school is 13,365 and their high schools 11,918. I don't know why that is that way. And frankly, yeah.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Two two quick things. Claremont receives a lot of grant monies. So the monies that we spend on grants is about $3 million a year that goes into that number.

[9248-61] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Benoit'); later a Claremont Schoo | 2017-08-02
PREV> Jason Benware: use a word here, and I think it's going to upset at least one of you. What's going on with us with the Claremont decision? I know it gives. I've heard that so many times. It gives the Claremont a black eye and all this.
TEXT> But you know what? It also points out a very specific problem that our town has and several other impoverished towns have, is that we don't get enough funding. We can't give our kids an adequate education, and we're bleeding the taxpayers dry because we don't have enough money.  So what's going to happen on our side of things now? Mr. Rapp responded to me by a social media, and sort of intimated to me that conversations were being had at the, you know, the  school board level and our lawyer and there's several lawyers working on this, and people are talking about it, which is all wonderful that we're conversing about it. But it seems to me I'm getting the feeling, like many things, people would rather just sort of sit back and all the different districts and kind of talk about what the problem is, but who's actually going to actually do something about it, because frankly, we could talk all day long, but eventually somebody has to move on this. So I just I'm happy we're talking about it, if indeed that's what's going on. And Mr. Connor, who's our lawyer, I assume he's doing something about it as well. Are there any timelines on any of this stuff where we can actually pin down? Are we going to do something about it, or are we going to just sit back and look at the problem?
NEXT> Chris Irish: I can answer that question. What's that? The Claremont decision is simple. They never did what they were supposed to do. I know that, and it's ironic. Not coincidentally, not

[9248-65] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: is smaller. They have fewer students, fewer schools, their budget $10 million more. Why? They have the revenue access. That doesn't mean we're victims and we're going to lay down. But this is not we. I'm not going to wait for Concord to fix this.
TEXT> I'm going to be working with state reps, and I'm going to continue to have public discussions about this and hopefully move toward  leveling the playing field, because right now, the playing field isn't level. I'm very, very proud about what we're doing here in Claremont School District, but measured by our students, the academics, the athletics, the arts. But we also acknowledge the taxpayer is above their nose in water. We know that we cannot resolve this by raising taxes. It's beyond that point.  But in the same light,  we cannot continue to survive if this reduction in revenue from the state continues. Our budget last year went up $76,000. The tax rate went up $0.11. But because of a lack of state aid, that $0.11 bumped to a buck quarter a thousand. So because.
NEXT> Jason Benware: We have a 15th century tax basis that we're running. That's why because we're running a tax base that worked really good in feudal England. But it doesn't work very

[9248-124] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in the Chair's absence) | 2017-08-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: used to carry, such as retirement now being locked back to the communities, we are heading toward a crisis. And without the revenue, it's going to be a great concern. That so I totally agree this has to be a part of where we're going.
TEXT> So for the sake of the minutes, I wanted to the people, I'm thinking right at the top of my head that I want to try to get here. Tom Kinnear, obviously the state reps, whoever are state senator, was there a state senator I know? Well, whoever. I don't even know.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And Hennessy.

[9248-139] Janine Riley | School nurse, Stevens High School (name as stated by the superintenden | 2017-08-02
PREV> Janine Riley: looking for things that might transmit, lice from one student to another, for the nurses to be able to send home every single day, because probably in some of the schools, it's brought to their attention every single day that there might be a student.
TEXT> For some students, it would mean they would never come to school.  The visits that we did to the different buildings were really brought up. A lot of things. Some of our buildings are older. They have very little space. If you. I think the biggest thing is that when I walked in and stood back was like, wow, there was a stack of coats all in a heap on the floor. In one place. There were several containers where all of their book bags were together.  There were all their coats might have been hanging on little tiny hooks. Altogether. There were carpets on the floor. There were children who were sitting on the floor. And especially at the elementary age, they're just touchy feely.  I was very impressed with one of the kindergartens when we were there. If you teach a child not to share their toothbrush, not to share their water bottle, then we should be teaching them not to share their hats, not to be sharing their clothing.  So some of that stuff comes back on us to educate our students, even at the lowest levels, as well as when we're using headphones for computers.
NEXT> Janine Riley: They have the little soft padding for their ears. There was a whole container altogether. Student has them on. They put them off. The next class comes in. On they

[9248-140] Janine Riley | School nurse, Stevens High School (name as stated by the superintenden | 2017-08-02
PREV> Janine Riley: bottle, then we should be teaching them not to share their hats, not to be sharing their clothing. So some of that stuff comes back on us to educate our students, even at the lowest levels, as well as when we're using headphones for computers.
TEXT> They have the little soft padding for their ears. There was a whole container  altogether. Student has them on. They put them off. The next class comes in. On they go. There's certain little things that we could do that would improve the situation. The big thing is when you do call a parent or you send a note home, you need to follow through. Make sure the person really understands. It's not a simple choice. It can take hours depending on the length of the student's hair. The amount of treatment I've been nursing for 37 years. This is not the first time I personally suggested that we may have a meeting with all of you, so that we can adequately educate you and make sure that you know what's going on. So if you're approached in the public, you can kind of stand behind what we're saying. If there's questions, I am more than willing to help any family. It is a lot of work. It's not just your hair. It isn't a simple home to have a shampoo. And off we go. It's your bedding. It's your your throws on your couch.
NEXT> Janine Riley: There's a lot of education. Yeah, your stuffed animals. A lot of people don't understand. They like clean hair. I don't like dirty hair. They don't like sticky hair. A

[9248-149] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-02
PREV> Patrick Adrian: the medical, the, you know, the medical experts, I don't really the only if the only thing that I would question would be that one of the recommendations for prevention is about, you know, the parents having the knowledge in order to check their kids.
TEXT> So I guess I didn't feel that it being unreasonable. I've seen a lot of schools that just say, you know, head lice found something like that. Just to let parents at least give them the opportunity to check their kids hair. I mean, that's all. I mean, that's the most I could see as far as the policy. I agree it's not a medical issue, but I guess I look at it as if somebody came to my home or and we had a flea infestation. I ought to let them know, because even in this case, headlights aren't they're not a medical priority. But people would want to know. And I guess that's the way I look at it. And it's not breaking confidentiality. We're not saying so-and-so. And the reality is kids, kids know when someone has head lice. I mean, we can we're not  I'm not saying breaking confidentiality at all. I'm just saying that that if that's the idea that just even acknowledging that head lice was found in the school where afraid or worried about sensitivity, I mean, the kids kids are going to feel sensitive one way or the other. We're not. We can do it. Just try to do it in this kind of a sensitive way. But that's the only thing I could I would look at as far as the policy.
NEXT> Janine Riley: Perhaps it would be interesting if we had or a suggestion to have all of the schools kind of like you brush your teeth every morning. These kids go to

[9248-150] Janine Riley | School nurse, Stevens High School (name as stated by the superintenden | 2017-08-02
PREV> Patrick Adrian: kids are going to feel sensitive one way or the other. We're not. We can do it. Just try to do it in this kind of a sensitive way. But that's the only thing I could I would look at as far as the policy.
TEXT> Perhaps it would be interesting if we had  or a suggestion to have all of the schools kind of like you brush your teeth every morning. These kids go to school maybe once a week. Parents should be doing this. Just kind of put it into your Sunday night routine. This is what I'm going to do. Or Friday night routine once a week. It doesn't hurt because I can check your head right now and tomorrow morning, who knows? So if it's something that just is repeatedly checked, and if they don't know what they're looking for, they certainly none of us would refuse to check if if you called me and you said, would you please check my son in the morning? Absolutely. It may not be the first thing I do, but I would absolutely make sure that it was done that day. So maybe just a simple reminder to all of the parents that once a week, they should be kind of checking the students, because there are a lot of kids in those elementary schools. And  I can look at the whole class today and tomorrow. It could be a whole different story.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Mike and then and Jason have a question too.

[9248-204] Scott | Vice President of Operations, Abbey Group food service contractor (sur | 2017-08-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I've been waiting for a.
TEXT> While to be talking here.  Yeah. So we've been going around the district. I'm Scott Sean, your vice president of operations for the advocate. Jason Hughes, she forgot to introduce herself. Sorry, but we put all the computerized point of sale systems in place already in the schools.  The purchase sales. And at the end of the contract period, the district will all know, we're in the process of setting up the Power School Connector, which interacts with Power School Database, which is all the kids, the attendance program in the school. It'll interact with meals, plus bring the accountant and it'll tell the components to where the kids are located, what school, what grade, what teacher. And if students move or, you know, go to a different school automatically update for us, which is great to lunch application. Com we're going to work with the business office with some, you know, information to put on the website hopefully front page where the parents will be able to click and go to the lunch application.com.
NEXT> Scott: And that way the parents can fill it out without sending a paper into school. So that'll cut down the stigma and that'll cut down the workload for the business

[9248-205] Scott | Vice President of Operations, Abbey Group food service contractor (sur | 2017-08-02
PREV> Scott: update for us, which is great to lunch application. Com we're going to work with the business office with some, you know, information to put on the website hopefully front page where the parents will be able to click and go to the lunch application.com.
TEXT> And  that way the parents can fill it out without sending a paper into school.  So that'll cut down the stigma and that'll cut down the workload for the business offices.  That would be an import into the free and reduced module, which is another piece we're setting up in the background. And the first year, like I told mine, could be a little bit more work because all the applications had to be entered in like the name and the address. Some of that information mainly put in. But after the first year, the second year is going to be even faster and that once they're approved, it'll automatically go into the point of sale system. There'll be no communicating to us who's free or reduced, and nobody is. Technically, nobody in the kitchen will really know the computer tall and the computer in the background. Everybody's treated the same way. Nobody knows who's free or reduced. So we encourage everybody out there to apply for the free introduce program.  All the all meals are available to all students, whether it's breakfast or lunch. So if they're approved for lunch, they get free breakfast. And like I said, all the choices available to all the kids in the district.
NEXT> Scott: So that's important for everybody to know. I did write a few notes just in case. So we the school did purchase some equipment at the middle school, and that's

[9248-207] Scott | Vice President of Operations, Abbey Group food service contractor (sur | 2017-08-02
PREV> Scott: school, the connectivity issue that might already be taken care of. I'll check to more on. We should be fully functional. We'll get all the, The K-12 payment center is free just for the parents to know, to sign up, to view their kids account.
TEXT> So if they want to see what their kids are having to eat. But if they want to put money on the account, that's where the dollar 95 transaction fee comes in and that's per payment. So if they hit 3 or 4 accounts that they want to pay for, it's only a one time fee, correct. For all the kids in the family. So and you can you can deposit as much as you'd like on your account for just $1.95. And that information should be posted on the C six website. That's all I had. If you guys have any questions. And thank you very much.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: We did need to make a $20,000 investment in the middle school. I don't know if people have seen what the middle school lunch line was, but it was countertop.

[9248-255] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: things because I see I, Mr. Benoit, I was listening to his comments and I thought I had a handle on that. Then Mike kind of confused me with the interjection of money about grants and section, the impact that inflates our cost per pupil.
TEXT> Yeah, because we're spending that money, that grant money. If we didn't receive that grant money, we would be spending less money, obviously. And we can't supplant with the grant money. So that's additional services we can offer to our students. Okay. Which is is a is a pretty high number for a district this size. I mean, we get $3 million in grants about every year, which is.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I guess what would be helpful would be what is that number that the taxpayers pay? What. Because we're I'm looking I look at the state information, I go

[9248-265] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-02
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Not only is Claremont the lowest, but they're 50% of the average. That's that's that's what's driving a lot of that.
TEXT> So I think if that's the case, we need to start looking at not just services that we provide the kids, the services that we provide to staff, administration,  programs that are not viable. I think we've got to really start digging deep. I think we've got to look at it. Middleton said it last year. We hit supplies last year. This year it's got to be personnel, I think, and I think we've got to look at that. And I'd love to know what levels of supports other districts have. So and I don't I don't want people to take this the wrong way. But do they have induction with mentoring programs? How many world languages do they have? How many people in their technology departments? How many people in their,  in their custodial staff? I think the city should do the same thing because we're we're not the only ones that are over there. Over to.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Pupil teacher ratios is one topic that we talked about last. Also the number of of classes that are quite small in some parts of our district.

[9248-281] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in the Chair's absence) | 2017-08-02
PREV> Chris Irish: to 2 to 1, they're not worth the money you spend going there. Great networking. You might catch a thing or two. But the reality is, and I'm just saying this because we're not going to, you know, we're going to be honest about stuff.
TEXT> To me there's a there's a becoming perks that we can't have anymore, only because there's so many other priorities that we have to focus on. It keeps coming back to what Richard used to say all the time. Our focus has to be educated kids and I. I've seen our priorities. I think shift from that and not necessarily by design. It's just by the way life is happening, whether it's social issues or, you know, whatever issues there are. So there are things like that. When I see, you know, you can't help it. You see the post, you see the people, hey, we're here. Five of us from a school district are in Georgia or California or wherever you go. Taxpayers see that, that they can't pay their taxes. And it's brutal to say, how is that helping educate my child? So I think and I'm not saying this is anything other than we need to have these honest public conversations about. There was a time and a place that that was appropriate and good. I think we prost that line. I think those kind of things we can say it's for the children all we want. We can say, I can, I know somebody can come to me and rationalize and justify that. But when it comes to the brass tacks of it, if we can't afford it. We can't afford it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I could just clarify one thing, Chris. The the the professional development that goes on and the the travel and the room and board and all that, it does

[9248-321] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Good discussion.
TEXT> I just wanted to recognize Stevens High School. As you can see, the United States Department of State recognizing the High School for German-American partnership program gap, ongoing commitment to citizen diplomacy, and fostering international understanding through youth exchange programs. Well, I know that certainly Gary Collison of Stevens High School faculty,  and I just want to recognize  our district for this acknowledgment. Every every school in New Hampshire does not receive this. So accolades to our our  Stevens High School. The next item, if I may jump down  Chris security update at grades. The good news is I sent this to you electronic because I would have killed a couple of trees. But I wanted you to understand the RFP, to see the RFP  and the multi pages. And in fact, I can't discuss it publicly, but  the bids have been closed and  Josh Malloy is going to be coming forward. So  we are moving quite quickly on this. But as to your point, Chris, there was you know, what about the article? Shall the Claremont School District vote to raise 141,000 for the purchase of  of security upgrades throughout the Claremont District Schools? This explains  what is going to be purchased with the understanding that  more details are coming. Once you see the results of the RFP and and the bids.
NEXT> Chris Irish: My my main question with that, do we have to spend that money in this fiscal year because it was a one article? Can that be carried over through the

[9248-339] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Patrick Adrian: a while. I guess going back to, I don't know, February maybe before, because I would like to just to help my understanding, because I know one time that we were also trying to talk about making that tie that to a vocational program, but,
TEXT> Actually, the plan is and I think you deserve to have a pre-K program presentation. We are aligning our program  with  other colleges, and if all goes as planned, students would be receiving college credit as well as the opportunity in preparation to enter the profession of education.  But again, these pieces are very loose as they are coming. If you remember,  the goal was to eventually have a what we called a teacher prep program and that that program  in the tech center was one exposure, among others, exposures that that students interested in education would have the opportunity to experience. But again, this is this is forming as we discuss.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Yeah. I guess that's all I wanted was an update just to know how how the program is evolving and, all the, all those components.

[9248-372] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-02
PREV> Chris Irish: we were involved in that decision rightfully so. And to to to undo that decision without giving us a chance to at least agree or disagree or that this is not the way to do business as far as I'm concerned, as a board member.
TEXT> I just I mean, yeah, my number one priority is always about what is best for the students. Claremont I just don't I,  I, I'm, I'm being open minded.  My big issue again in February. February was there was no time to really be able to digest or it would make a decision on it. But on the budget matter. But I think now I just want to know, I think especially as we're I just want as we're kind of looking to, you know, for the future, you know, with the master plan, everything. I just want to understand how it's going to work and how it is. This the I just want to know how it's going to work for the students, because if things come up, that might be a with new anytime you roll out new programs, if something a complication comes up, we at least need to know how the programs run. You know, if there's.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Did hear how the program is being run, well.

[9248-375] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Not run. I'm sorry how it's going to be designed.
TEXT> So continuing running that program with what you heard in that public, I don't think would have been the best interest of the students. That's where we're going with this.  So you heard one thing, but then you heard another thing and the other thing you heard we couldn't discuss publicly. So that's why we want to make these changes. However, I very much respect your position. We didn't have a meeting in July.  A lot of things happen in summer. Not everyone's here. 24 over seven  on August 16th will have a presentation.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I think because I think clearly we all have the same just confusion. It may just be a reminder issue, but I think you are here so you're lucky.

[9248-409] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Chris Irish: And school board policy first read nonacademic surveys and questionnaires.
TEXT> Yes. This is, as you can see, as a result of recent legislation. And we are creating this to be in compliance. It doesn't pertain to the Youth Risk Behavior Survey, but it goes into effect next month as a law.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: What other surveys do we typically I can't think of any besides safe school.

[9248-415] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Except safe.
TEXT> School, accept youth risk behavior.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah.

[9268-16] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Opposed? And any abstentions, I will abstain. I was not at the meeting. Okay. Still passes. Thank you. And with that, we have our superintendents report. Doctor Goodwin. Good evening.
TEXT> Thank you very much. Good evening. Many times people think that the summer things quiet down. And in fact, in the Claremont School District, just the opposite occurs. But,  also in the same sense for the Claremont community. For those of you who caught yesterday's Eagle Times article about  makerspace, Senator Hassan and several residents attended.  And the makerspace  is going to be another opportunity for our students and our community. And it's designed to encourage collaboration between different makers in the space metal shop, wood shop, wet room with sinks, electrical room, jewelry workshop, etc.. And Senator Hassan,  spoke tremendously with great, great emphasis and passion, saying if we unleash the talent and creative energy of each and every one of us, then all of a sudden these skills come together with the collaboration we are talking about right here. And she talks about business ideas, creative energy and other economy initiatives start to take off. So this is not only about our students benefiting from this, but also the community itself. And so it's another, in my view, another indication of Claremont starting to turn  in a very positive way.  The 2017 2018 school year looks like it's it feels like it's still a great distance away, but in essence, it's about two weeks from from today that the school year begins.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We have welcome back activities and new teacher orientation during the last few weeks of August. And then, our students return on on Monday, September 5th. Excuse me. Tuesday, September

[9268-17] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: view, another indication of Claremont starting to turn in a very positive way. The 2017 2018 school year looks like it's it feels like it's still a great distance away, but in essence, it's about two weeks from from today that the school year begins.
TEXT> We have welcome back activities and new teacher orientation during the last few weeks of August. And then, our students return  on on Monday, September 5th. Excuse me. Tuesday, September 5th. And then our kindergarten students. Full day kindergarten students begin  on September 11th, 2017. It's also important to note, though, that it's not just about the school district and the teachers. There's a great deal of activity going on with the students, and if you look once again at the Eagle Times, our local paper, in yesterday's Eagle Times, there's a very nice article about our student athletes. And in fact, if you look on today's Eagle Times, there's even another article about our student athletes. And I'd like to, with the permission. Stevens. Fun night. Stephen High School athletics participated in a rotating lap around Barnes Park Tuesday. Every athlete rotates to the back of the line once he or she reaches the front of the line. And there were several different activities. But the spirit of this is the two hour event gave the athletes an opportunity to get to know each other from other sports, rather than the one they participate in.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So you talk about a school community, you talk about the academics, the arts and the athletics. And this is just one further indication of the Claremont School District and

[9268-19] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the background of of the candidates. That changed in 2016. Effective September 16th, 2017, House Bill 556 will go into effect and that going to provide school superintendents and only school superintendents, by the way, with much more details about the background of our candidates.
TEXT> And the goal is to once again ensure that we are hiring the right men and right women, and to close that gap  from anyone who really should not be employed with our students and with our colleagues,  but in the past may have been able to slip in, if you will, because of the lack of information. So it's a big step forward. And it really this, this statewide law that's going to be benefiting every school district actually started in Claremont three years ago with the vent that took place. And then a group of residents,  myself included. Another municipal leaders  testified in Concord for after a two year period,  it was approved with some resistance, but it was approved. So the New Hampshire school districts, in my view, had benefited by the proactive and the perseverance and in some cases, the courage of some residents who testified to make this happen. Thank you.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any questions for the superintendent?

[9268-66] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: All right. Thank you. I guess we'll open it up to citizens comments. Anybody?
TEXT> Know in the citizens comments for a few minutes on some different things that I've been going through with  what we've talked about over the past few. Well, over the past month at least. And before that, where we were talking about children of cars and  all of that. So I'm actually, looking for some, some guidance, some people to,  other community members to help with some questions. I have questions. Lots of them. How  how? My daughter is incarcerated, and some of the things that I feel necessary is to, to speak  out. And this is a great forum to do that, to be able to talk about these things and start opening up this, this forum. So some of the questions that I'd like to, to, to put out there are a, how how can other parents, how do they deal with the incarceration, how how do they deal with, their children or their grandchildren being incarcerated? And how are we as a community dealing with accepting people  that are incarcerated back in because they did make a statement that said, there is us and them, and we can't have that anymore. It has to be a we thing. We all have to be a community together.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So how do you want people to? What would be the best forum for people to answer your questions of ideas?

[9268-77] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anybody else for citizens comments? That move on to discussion items? Food service update.
TEXT> Thank you. Working with the Abbey Group.  Yesterday, all parents of Guardians of Claremont School District students, as well as all our faculty received an email from me with a an introductory letter. We're doing this in a gradual basis,  not inundating.  We're going to be utilizing the press, the media, to also introduce our community to the benefits and opportunities of our new food service program. August 22nd. Additional information will be forthcoming coming. And then on August 25th, we're going to kick off the opportunity for parents or guardians to  access free reduced lunch opportunities with enhanced confidentiality  for those parents who have the opportunity to or choose to. It can be done online,  and the goal is to have  in many students as as eligible, participating in the free Reduced Lunch program  who are entitled to receive that benefit at the beginning of the beginning of the school year. We also are going to head to Back to School Festival in August 26th. Abby Group will be there and there will also be some assistance with free reduced lunch applications as well. The key I want to emphasize, though, is informing the community with appropriate sound bites and information so  they are aware about the advantages, the opportunities, some of the changes we're making  that will be beneficial not only to the students, but I think also to the families.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And the key is to to really emphasize the importance in our awareness of the confidentiality of a family's personal finances. It's no one's business. And so we're very respectful

[9268-87] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I'm not circulated.
TEXT> Because, you know, I, I, I just, I know it's a good service and it's access as it is important for all of our, our, our families and our students. But also, I'd hate to just, just be advertising or helping one business.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I would.

[9268-97] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Director of a instructional technology, our tech director, working closely with him because he has shown us that he really has the information regarding what you've just said. And I'm confident that will maximize and also provide as much as we can information.
TEXT> I know that we've said this in public meeting, but yeah, I think it's okay. I, I feel it is okay for us to kind of restate, you know, on public, you know, on public record that I think to any families, even if they even if someone does not intend to use the, the, freedom reduced lunch program, it is in if, if a family qualifies, it's in it helps the district. It helps our kids, all our kids to fill out the information because the state fund, the part of that state funding, is based on those calculations. We actually lose funding when families who qualified don't fill out the information. It doesn't mean having, you know, it's parents choice whether they want to use the school's lunch program, but fill out the information if if one qualifies just to help the district. That's one of the advantages of having this internet access is it really allows people to do that in a confidential way and something and also to be able to, make it a lot easier to, to, stay on top of the  their child's lunch services.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And we also, Brian, plan to have a protocol where no one will be able to identify a child on free reduced lunch, or a child who is not either

[9268-202] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Has anyone challenged them on the fact that there is not a school, public or private, that can operate on that? Yet they they they determined this to be an adequate education cost, but there's no evidence to substantiate that.
TEXT> I've said this for years, and I know it's an extreme way, but my attitude with that, the only way you could ever challenge this is to shut down your school district, tell the state you come in and figure this out. But no one can do that because it would kill our kids. But there's no what do you do? Call win?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Well, I, I, I kind of disagree a little bit. With that only because of this. After attending the educational summer and hearing some really interesting things, like, we have

[9268-204] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michelle Pierce: different pages, many people saying different things. We as a board cannot go on their 2 or 3 at a time and communicate back our thoughts or feelings, because we will be in a, I believe a quorum, however, so we can't address them there.
TEXT> But I can address this here. It is not the administration, it is not the school.  It is not the taxpayers. It is the system.  And the only way to challenge that system is to start looking at how to rebuild a better system. Let's be  the one city and the one place in the United States they can come back and say to the federal government and to the state government, look, here's a system that we think might work better so we could create that we could make that we can do that as a community,  as our administrator, as our teachers, as our community in a whole. So again, it goes back to the fundamentals of  what I learned, which I highly recommend any board member should go to next time, because it was such an eye opener to get the experience of understanding things that you just don't ever hear. Normally, you don't get that kind of information. Normally it's not accessible normally, so learn your system before you continue to to blame everybody. Learn the system and you will see the problem. The problem is your system  and how they believe that children should be ranked and rated, including dollars and cents.
NEXT> Unidentified: I just wanted to bring it back around to this distribution of expenditures.

[9268-319] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: O.
TEXT> Handbook for you briefly. And I'd like to introduce Kristin Eisner, who is our all program specialist, who is now starting her second year with us. Come on up.  And I just wanted to give you this a again, I apologize for getting the handbook to you so late. What we had going into this year. And just to go back to the student handbook, we're also going to put a copy of this in all the student packets. Hard copy. Over the last couple of years, along with grades, we went fully electronic. But we realized that with a handbook where it's rules and regulations that's not accessible for a lot of parents, they want to have the hard copy on the kitchen table or whatever, wherever it is. And students also said, well, I never saw that dress code. Where is that? And it always felt really lame to say it's online. You should have accessed it. So we're going to give everybody their hard copy and it's got a legit sign off. I've read this and I'm going to adhere to these rules which we're going to collect back. It's kind of going back old school and using some paper, but some things I feel have to be hard copy.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So I just wanted the board to know that everyone's getting that. So we wanted to talk to you a little bit about give. It's a short PowerPoint, but just

[9268-325] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: when it was still inside Stevens. We had a lead teacher and we cycled three quarter time teachers in there. When I say quarter time. So for one block a day, those teachers went into the program and did direct instruction in their core program.
TEXT> They had one para attached, and our crisis counselor was there for a block a day. So for teachers, opera and a quarter mental health in 1516, 1617, the year we just finished, owls didn't change in its staffing. Ault we were able to bring the English teacher and a social studies teacher in to Paris and the counselor. So we actually lost a quarter teacher. It was a 3.75 teachers to Paris and the mental health. 1718 so what we are proposing, you see, is an asterisk at the 4.25, while we have two teaching positions attached to the Owls program, one of those teachers has a doctorate in math, and we are without a math teacher going into our school year. So we felt it was in the best interest of the math department that we reassigned that teacher to be a full time math teacher, at least for the first semester. While we continue to look  for a math applicant, we have zero. We've gone through three rounds of hiring and have no applicants in the pipeline, so he will be teaching first semester math. But we know that Owls needs to teachers.  We are proposing a restructuring of Owls and Alt to maximize the staff that are there. And that would mean that we still have two teachers attached.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: We are in the process of hiring someone to replace the spare tawny. And, we have the one full time specialist, which is Kristen. We have hired somebody who has

[9268-329] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So we also have to consider what the law says. And the law says that we in, in providing alternative education, have to have a procedures for assessing and implementing the problem program. That's consistent with RSA 193, which is basically our graduation requirements.  We haven't been able to do that with 100% fidelity. That's what we're aiming for. So specifics when the program would be offered, which might be at a time of day during the regular school day. Hence the need for a handbook, which really addresses this and demonstrates how the alternative program will enable the participating students to achieve the same. The same district and graduation competencies outlined for all students consistent with the law. So that's the key language. There hasn't been that consistency. That's what we're aiming for. So what will be different. As I said we will go to one session. Should should another group of students be identified. And we need to create a second session. We will do that. So but right now, given the need that we've identified one session, the work study will now be preapproved. Ellos. You can still maybe your work study might still be working at KFC, but we're going to identify what you're doing at KFC and how it meets English and math competencies, and how we can tie it to your education.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: That work study will now be credit bearing. So for your ELO for those 17.5 hours, you get a credit because we're tying it to your academics. Certified teaching staff

[9268-343] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: Help develop.
TEXT> She's going to be working with Kristen and and everybody in both programs that first month in creating those. And for those students.
NEXT> Kristin Eisner: One thing I really like about the yellow, it gives kids an opportunity that may not know what they want to do after high school, to kind of experience some

[9268-387] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination) | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. No.
TEXT> I wasn't going to ask it, and then I wasn't. Now I'm going to. And it's just a wording thing. It says work under quality work. It says work is clearly lacking. An effort will be returned to the student for improvement before it is graded. And,  I love that because I'm not fluffy when it comes to student participation and doing your best. But I'm just wondering the clearly lacking. Is that subjective?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: No. The teacher everything has a rubric. Okay.

[9268-446] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: of folks. Patrick and Michelle were able to speak in that process and can speak to that as well. We discussed different themes. We we had, robust discussion, we had rich discussion, we had lengthy discussion. And the primary, I would say the real primary.
TEXT> Sense of urgency that came out of all of that is that we're not okay with what we have for education in our community today. We aren't saying that what we have is bad. We're just saying that what we have now doesn't meet the needs of our society, doesn't meet the needs of our community, doesn't meet where we want to be 20 years from now. And if we continue to do what we've always done, we're going to continue to get what we've what we've always gotten. And we want more. We want better. We want to revolutionize education in our community, for our children in the future. So when we think about that, we have developed the committee has developed the mission. The Claremont School District is committed to providing an engaging, personalized education that attends to educating the whole child and requires strong family and community partnerships and preparing all to become thriving contributors to a global community. And I'm not, practicing bad PowerPoint presentation skills by reading this to you, but I am reading it aloud. So those at home who can't necessarily see the screen can hear what that mission is. We also created a vision of success, and the vision is we are going to revolutionize education in Claremont. One student at a time, because we recognize that every student is important and every student counts.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Our core values. And I'm not going to read through all these because it's rather lengthy. But the idea of we want to provide multiple ways to learn. We know

[9268-451] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: And budgets.
TEXT> That champion innovation. And the school board recognizes the importance of early learning and early intervention to maximize future success. We already had the tax conversation a few minutes ago. We know that resources are an important factor in all that we do. We also know that we can be creative and not have those resources be a limiting factor. And we also know that we need to be cognizant and fiscally responsible for our taxpayers, and that percentage of our folks in our community who have no direct correlation to our school yet. But focusing our dollars early gives us a much better return on investment than focusing our dollars later on in life. And so if we only have a few dollars, we want them to grow for us as much as they can grow. And I think this last line is important as stewards of taxpayer dollars. The school board and administration are committed to ensuring the resources necessary to educate our children while maintaining fiscal responsibility. So this isn't a strategic plan set out to, you know, jack up the tax rate. It's just a  strategic plan with the intention of maintaining that fiscal responsibility  and doing a kick butt job at educating our kids. It's a both and it's not an either or.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: There are three focus areas of the strategic plan, and they are not in any sort of priority list. There of equal importance. And they cover three very different areas.

[9268-453] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: of conversation at this level, again, about not being able to do it alone. And when we looked at a few minutes ago, the budget and tax information that we saw, one of the things that we saw there was, the idea of our valuation.
TEXT> I forget exactly what that slide was, but our number was in the 300,000 and the average was in the 900,000. And that's not something that we're going to make up in, in just the school budget. Right. That's something that's much larger than the school board and the school budget. It's a community thing. And we've talked a lot in this room about, okay, this is a really important issue that's impacting the schools, but it's not only impacting the schools, it's impacting our community. So how can we work together? That's why you're having those joint school board and city council meetings, because you all recognize the need to work together with larger resources and across our community, because it's not just a school problem anymore. Our schools are an asset to our community, and they should be an asset to our community and reflective of that. And so how do we partner with community members? How do we provide ellos extended learning opportunities, where we can leverage the knowledge and expertise in our community to help our kids become those active members and contributing members later on? We had a student this year placed with Red River, who created all of the marketing tools, or had a significant role in creating all of the marketing tools for the Rock the camel event that they had.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: That was a phenomenal learning opportunity for that student, was something that we couldn't necessarily provide in the four walls of our high school, but we have hundreds of community

[9268-454] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: active members and contributing members later on? We had a student this year placed with Red River, who created all of the marketing tools, or had a significant role in creating all of the marketing tools for the Rock the camel event that they had.
TEXT> That was a phenomenal learning opportunity for that student, was something that we couldn't necessarily provide in the four walls of our high school, but we have hundreds of community partners out there that we can leverage to help our kids learn. Chris has talked before about our partnerships with River Valley Community College in Granite State and what used to be called Catch the Wave in our limited access or not access, but use of programs like that. We we have a new partnership with Granite State that's happening this fall. Pathways to success. We're able to offer a, college credit to incoming high school students and put them on a track for potentially, they could even have an associate's degree before they finished high school. So how can we go beyond the four walls of our high school to educate our kids? Our slogan, because everybody needs a slogan that could go on the back of your t shirt. Our community is committed to success for all, one student at a time, doing it, whatever it takes.  So  one of the things I had sent out to you ahead of time were some definitions. The purpose of those definitions is to have a clear understanding of what those terms mean across our district.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: One of the things that I noticed in education, and I can't speak directly to other industries or organizations, but in education we will come up with a term, and

[9268-466] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: Can see. So we are calling.
TEXT> It. The Claremont School District Professional Learning University, and we have a series of five sessions mapped out for year one  that will be that foundational learning for all of our instructional staff, teachers and paraprofessionals, related service providers and such will go through this around curriculum, instruction and assessment. So we are all grounded in the same foundation as we move this work forward. So when we're talking about student centered learning, we need to make sure everybody knows what that is and support teachers as they transition  for some of them, from more traditional pedagogy  and learning and teaching approaches to more student centered. So when we talk about taking the theoretical strategic plan and putting it in action, we're talking about things like this. What does session one actually look like. And then creating facilitator guides so that next year when we get a new crop of teachers. Because  if you remember, we have one of the lowest salaries in the state and that does have an impact. It's not the only impact, but it does have an impact on, the fact that we train really great teachers and then they go get higher paying jobs in other places. We have a model that we are building for sustainability. We have a model that we are building to ensure that  new folks coming in have that same foundational level of understanding as everybody else, because we're trying to create the systems and structures for stability over time.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we're we're moving away from a model where one person is the keeper of all information, or we only have this resource in this one tiny pocket to widespread,

[9268-467] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: model that we are building for sustainability. We have a model that we are building to ensure that new folks coming in have that same foundational level of understanding as everybody else, because we're trying to create the systems and structures for stability over time.
TEXT> So we're  we're moving away from a model where one person is the keeper of all information, or we only have this resource in this one tiny pocket to widespread, transparent understanding across all teachers, across all staff members, across our entire community, so that we know we're all on the same page. And if we clearly articulate those expectations to all, we all have a part in maintaining those expectations and holding each other accountable to meeting those. And that's what we're trying to build. So in terms of rollout, we really need to think about what the different groups need. What do students need to know about the strategic plan. What do teachers need to know? What do leaders need to know? And what do our families and community need to know about the strategic plan? One of the things we've done is, I've shared with you a lot of dense information. As I mentioned, there's a lot of  you speak scattered throughout, and we are in the process of creating a  page, I believe, off the Claremont School District page for the strategic plan. So all of the lengthy documents will be housed there so everybody can see them. There's nothing we're trying to hide all of our definitions of terms, all of our outcomes for on a yearly basis, our plans, everything will be housed in that one spot.
NEXT> Unidentified: But for.

[9268-500] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Educational opportunities for teachers?
TEXT> Yeah. So in March we have a proposal based PD day. So every teacher in our district is able to submit a proposal. The Professional Growth Committee reviews those proposals and either approves them or asks for greater clarification in some areas. And teachers self design their professional learning for that day. And then in February, we have a day that's focused on a data driven dialog. So principals throughout the course of the year leading up to them will emphasize, using data and evidence to form decision making, particularly for student learning. And then we will spend a day on that in February, digging deeper into the the data that we have at multiple levels  to to inform our instruction. So those are the days that are currently part of the agreement in the calendar.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[9268-510] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: Great.
TEXT> If you look at the focus area of facilities, academic structure and learning environment, when you listen to what Michael O'Neill said, when you what you've read regarding the finances of our state, it wouldn't be a surprise if someone like myself said, we are really victims. I mean, poor us is not fair.  And so to back away, I want to publicly say that, we have our fiscal challenges, but I refuse to let that be used to back down. But in truth. But in truth, here's the reality. The reduction in funding from the state continues. I don't know how long, but it continues. Fact the Claremont taxpayer cannot absorb additional increases. That's a fact. But the other fact is we are obligated to maximize the children's education.  And so our plan, if you look at facilities, academic structure and learning environments is to assemble a team. And by the way, this is not going to be a multi-year process. This team is going to be assembled next month, and we're going to finish our work in December of 2017. Why?  Because our work needs to influence the budget going forward. And part of that's going to be looking at our high school schedule, looking at our middle school schedule, looking at our elementary schedules and asking ourselves based on student learning outcomes, and also based on class sizes, based on grade configuration, based on enrollment and projected enrollment.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Or when I talk about student data, learning outcomes, the positive and negative and identify that. And we're starting to I had a conversation with Christine Downey today and she

[9268-511] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: that's going to be looking at our high school schedule, looking at our middle school schedule, looking at our elementary schedules and asking ourselves based on student learning outcomes, and also based on class sizes, based on grade configuration, based on enrollment and projected enrollment.
TEXT> Or when I talk about student data, learning outcomes, the positive and negative and identify that. And we're starting to I had a conversation with Christine Downey today and she didn't find  a patent of, of of academic achievement in math that we're going to discuss publicly and we're going to correct. It's not a surprise. We've been talking about this for some time now. Now we have the opportunity looking at the high school schedule, the middle school schedule, and the elementary schedule. And in particular, the data was about the high school students and their math competencies. But the goal is with this team is to come forward with recommendations, but also with our buildings and the access to the community. And also planning for fiscal year 19. The budget process has to be a piece. So, Chris, to your point, you're absolutely right. The community may here oh my gosh, here go our taxes. No we can't do that. We reached we reached our cap. But we also have specific needs especially maximizing children's education. So during the next several months this fall and into the early winter before Christmas, in preparation for the budget process, we're going to go through an analysis and assessment with some key players.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And at the end result, we'll have public discussions and specific recommendations for 20 1819 going forward. It's very likely there'll be some specific changes, but it won't be something

[9268-512] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: cap. But we also have specific needs especially maximizing children's education. So during the next several months this fall and into the early winter before Christmas, in preparation for the budget process, we're going to go through an analysis and assessment with some key players.
TEXT> And at the end result, we'll have public discussions and specific recommendations for 20 1819 going forward. It's very likely there'll be some specific changes, but it won't be something that the adults think is a good idea. It's going to be based on hard, factual data of several years of student learning outcomes with a specific plan. And it may very well talk about a reorganization, but it's going to be strategic. In 20 1112 and 1213, we didn't have a strategic plan. We had a focus plan. I was getting my feet wet. We were we were getting where we were working forward. And now, six years later, we're at a point where now we're going to go, we're going to have a focus, we're going to have specific public discussions, and we're also going to have specific recommendations. But these recommendations can't take take off in a rocket of finances. We've got to be fiscally responsible. And that means we've got to do some restructuring. And at the end of the day, I want you to know that the building principals and the Claremont School District, their evaluation goals are based on their commitment and working as partners with this strategic plan.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But they're not going to be the worker bees. They're going to be a component of that working with community, working with faculty. So, we've got to be sensitive about

[9268-513] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: that means we've got to do some restructuring. And at the end of the day, I want you to know that the building principals and the Claremont School District, their evaluation goals are based on their commitment and working as partners with this strategic plan.
TEXT> But they're not going to be the worker bees. They're going to be a component of that working with community, working with faculty.  So, we've got to be sensitive about the reduction in state aid. We've got to be sensitive about the tax rate and the taxpayer, but we can't lose the target, which is maximizing the children in this community and their opportunity. And so that's where we're going. However, let me just share one more point. As a board.  You've talked about having your Saturday meetings that you're right and you have every right to do that. And you but you need us to know where you're going because it's going to be a lot of work in this direction, and we don't want to undo it. So I hope you're going to be a part of this team going forward, because this is budgetary, this is facilities,  academics, the environment of Claremont.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And I.

[9268-553] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: Bless you serve on that team of representative stakeholders for this particular.
TEXT> Absolutely. And that's what we're trying to say is now we're at the next step where where she's presenting this part, which is, hey, this is how far we've gotten.  We've broken down and shown each idealistic situation. However, it looks really big and it looks like some things are just kind of all lumped together when in fact we are lumped together in a situation. Yes, it's a different this and that. However, it is still under our children in the best education and whatever it takes to get them there. And that is the ultimate goal and that's what this is all about. So I definitely, definitely encourage anyone, community or otherwise, to be a part of it because this is this was awesome.  8:00 in the morning, Saturday morning stuff  sometimes. However, definitely, you know, get involved, get an understanding community, got involved, come out and, you know, and get a hold of Cory and and ask her to, you know, let you know what, where, when and how, because she'll be able to direct that part of it. Right.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Patrick. Where do you get.

[9268-556] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: kind of use those resources more effectively. Similarly, you know, in terms of how we can be probably in order for us to be the most invested, one of the things is for us to, you know, to be in the schools to, to, to.
TEXT> To, to try and be as make this the schools and education and the kids in our, in our community is much a part of our life. And and the more that we're just engaging in that, the better we're going to be as stewards. And. You know, I so I have to say, there's, you know, the two things that got me that, you know, I in reflection, I really like about this, this plan one, is that sort of the way the community resources and the way that it brings the community and, you know, similarly, you know, we're talking about. Yeah, I. More so than, you know, I mean, I guess I love school board meetings, but those Saturday meetings you have, I liked going to those meetings  because they got me excited. They, they about education again. I actually got my, my I think sitting with kind of yes, there was kind of was it was a lot of educators in the room and no doubt. But we did have we had parents and we had we had district administrators, we had principals, we had parents.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I thought you meant our budget meetings. I was like, I know I really like those, dude. I think he needed he needs help.

[9268-563] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: To.
TEXT> Chris's point about the tech center and you're absolutely right. And to to Patrick's point, this plan took  a year of hard work. Saturday mornings we went for monthly meetings to buy biweekly meetings because we knew that if the if the skeleton  was sound and it represented what we heard from the community, that then as we put the meat and the and and the muscle on the skeleton, it was just going to get stronger and stronger as time went by. And so what I found so energizing as an educator were these conversations. And I don't want the word revolutionized lost because that's the key word. I just watched a Ted talk about how the countries, the the industrialized nations in the world that are soaring ahead in education are not the ones who are spending the most money on education. And so the fiscally responsible piece here is about  blowing up the 150 year old agricultural agrarian system that we still follow because we're not sending kids out into the potato and the blueberry fields anymore. We don't need the calendar and the system and the school day research facilities. 25 days, 25 years has shown that our our system isn't what our kids need, so we need to act on it.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: If if everything that is on the skeleton of this plan is what we say first before any decision is made. If this is our Bible, if this is our

[9268-565] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: We have everything we need here in Claremont to make this happen. And it's not about spending more money. It's about thinking differently, thinking outside the box and saying, how do we do everything we need to do and do it to meet 21st century?
TEXT> Because we're still stuck in 1850? In a lot of ways, we're stuck there and, and, and, and our kids aren't being prepared because in big part because of the system. So I'm hoping that the kind of energy and excitement and passion that we had on those Saturday mornings where we were talking about 12, not 12 hour school days, but 12 hours of our buildings being open and and and accessible to people and things happening. And what could be going on in this building and rethinking just because we've always been connected to, always done, always throw that out. Let's start fresh. And I'm hoping that it's going to take a village. And I'm hoping that the board gets that excitement and the board gets that passion and feels that what we felt every Saturday because it's infectious, because once we're all living it and talking it every day and making it part of what we do, it's going to be infectious into the community and people are going to be pounding the doors down. I think to be on these committees and to be a part of what they're seeing happening. So I just don't want that to be lost because, you know, it's a document. It can it can be dry and it's only as alive as we make it. But I think the the hard work went into making sure that it covered everything we needed to cover.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And then we were the ones who, to your question of the who and the what and the how, we're now all going to be put in that that muscle

[9315-13] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: We'll get you out here early. Do you have any edits? Yeah. Thank you. Do we have a second? Yes. Thank you. Any other discussion on the minutes? Everybody in favor? Aye. Opposed? Okay. Thank you very much. That doctor.
TEXT> Thank you. Good evening. Day two of the 2017 2018 school year. When I reflect back the end of the school year, 1617 with June 13th and  you blink your eyes. And it was August 30th, and  I made a presentation to our faculty,  all of our Claremont staff on the day before their professional development day and their to teach your work day. But over the course of the summer, there have been  several professional development programs workshops.  So our teachers are not idle.  Our staff are not idle during the course of the summer.  And in fact, there's quite a commitment as as they work in preparation for the beginning of the school year. And I in the packet tonight with the nominations, you have an agenda of multi-day agenda of the induction with mentoring program. And I hope you had a chance to look at that, because that really does speak about the Claremont School District and its investment. I think I've said share with you before. One of the things that attracted me to Claremont six years ago was the message induction with mentoring provides, which is teachers are important. We invest in our teachers training, and the expectation is that it will impact children and benefit children learning.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So teaching really is now is not an individual position or profession. It really has to be the can no silos in our profession and we need opportunities to work

[9315-14] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: you before. One of the things that attracted me to Claremont six years ago was the message induction with mentoring provides, which is teachers are important. We invest in our teachers training, and the expectation is that it will impact children and benefit children learning.
TEXT> So teaching really is now is not an individual position or profession. It really has to be  the can no silos in our profession and we need opportunities to work closely with each other. Always asking the questions how can we improve as measured by student learning outcomes?  And throughout the summer, there are also several new hires. You've been receiving this. There are some again in tonight's packet, but we can't. One thing that we can't keep away from is being in the news. And I'm sort of pleased about that, because some of the things in the news really speak about the Claremont School District and our students.  Page two  of today's Eagle Time talks about ten area high school students to earn free college credit through Pathways to Success. And if you haven't had a chance to look at this article, I'll send it to you. But it does speak about our partnership with River Valley Community College.  Some of these students, the majority, are from Stevens High School. There are some from  Newport, as well as New England Classic Academy. And right now the number is ten. But this morning the Stevens High School freshmen and sophomores had a presentation  with the administration and Christine Downey, and they are looking for four additional students to join the Pathway to Success program.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: In other words, they have the capacity to add for more. And so that's exciting. And I think what's going to be important is that we have ongoing discussions about

[9315-15] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: New England Classic Academy. And right now the number is ten. But this morning the Stevens High School freshmen and sophomores had a presentation with the administration and Christine Downey, and they are looking for four additional students to join the Pathway to Success program.
TEXT> In other words, they have the capacity to add  for more. And so that's exciting. And I think what's going to be important is that we have ongoing discussions about the work of this program. The benefit to our students. But just imagine that you can almost earn an associate degree in college credit before you graduate from high school. That's really remarkable. And I'm just very, very pleased. I know, Chris, you've we've talked about  running start and prior experiences. So we're not there yet. I think this is just the beginning, but the opportunity of utilizing our resources and providing for all students. And not every student will fit the program a pathway to success. But what's important to me is that regardless of who the student, I thought I had turned that down, I apologize. Sweet home Alabama.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Yes, sir. Again. His thoughts? Punishment enough.

[9315-21] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Okay, we're going to post on TV your cell phone number now, so let's just keep going.
TEXT> Give up New Hampshire.  The goal was gear up New Hampshire.  As I said before, it is to expose students to tremendous opportunities. And we do hope. We do hope  that  over the course  of the next several years, we will see a gradual increase of students going to post-high school experiences. Gear up week is September 17th to 23, 2017. So I'm meeting with the high school and the middle school  tomorrow morning, and we are planning for the Claremont School District gear up week  of September 17 to 23, so there'll be more information forthcoming with that. And last but not least, being in the schools,  you can hear evidence of of the arts being publicized,  the theater.  Instrumental music. You also,  I've said before with the with the academics and gear up New Hampshire as well as a pathway to success and last but not least, the Athletics. So go on the website.  Continue to remain informed about the different opportunities that are ongoing in our district. It's really quite remarkable. If one doesn't stay on top of this, one can easily become overwhelmed by the variety of different opportunities for our students.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So I just want to extend compliments to our our staff and to our administration and also to our students. The first couple of days have been have been very

[9315-22] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: So go on the website. Continue to remain informed about the different opportunities that are ongoing in our district. It's really quite remarkable. If one doesn't stay on top of this, one can easily become overwhelmed by the variety of different opportunities for our students.
TEXT> So I just want to extend compliments to  our our staff and to our administration  and also to our students. The first couple of days have been have been very fast moving, but I've been pleased being in each of the schools and being a casual observer, having lunch with some students.  It's we're off to a good start, but,  it's only a year. It's only a day two, and we have clearly many more days ahead of us. But I think it's important to talk as much as we can about what's going well, and also some of our challenges as we prepare to go for the future. So that is my,  superintendents report with some background music from my phone.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any questions for the superintendent? Yes.

[9315-28] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: right now, so we're on it. We have to turn over a few leaves, we have to learn more about it and and then apply for the grant if in fact it fits, if it fits where we are and where we want to go.
TEXT> But we need to provide more Stem opportunities for students. And if we can expand on the robotics program  and have engaging experiences for our students with Stem and with the support of the state or federal government, it's a win win. So this is a work in progress, Patrick, but we are on it. But it's again, we haven't gone into a deeply enough and through the process, but the administration  have indicated the interest from elementary, middle and high  in interest to pursue it,  even some of our instructional technology,   staff have have expressed an interest. So it's it's caught our attention and we are learning more about it as as the deadline approaches the end of this month.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: They're not large awards for an elementary school. You get a maximum annual award is $1,000, for the kit middle school of 1500 for the kit high school, 5000 for

[9315-93] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Superintendent: 'if I may, Chris, y | 2017-09-06
PREV> Chris Irish: that okay? Reminders a lump them together. You know, and I've said this to anybody that will listen to me, and I want to make this very clear. When the budget comes to us from you guys, I will accept right out of the gate.
TEXT> And I think I can speak to the board that everything you are asking for, you can justify, you can make an argument for. It's part of what you need to educate our kids. So where I want to try to get to is, is not having a lot of time spent on just justifying to us why you need the money, because I have no doubt in my mind, and I used to say this to to Guy and I was on the council all the time. You if you need $1 billion. You asked me for $1 billion. It's up to us to do the heavy lifting and be the bad guys if we have to cut. It's not up to you to do the job first. So I know what you're giving us is 100%. I have faith it's what you're just with. It's no hidden fat or any of that stuff.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So for me, it's up to us to really dig into it. And based on a lot of other things that, you know, how we want to look at it.

[9315-114] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Superintendent replies 'Frank is right' | 2017-09-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: data driven. And I want to make sure that when we have that discussion that there's real data behind it, protects our integrity in the process. That way. It's, you know, it is about what the needs are and can't be perceived as about people.
TEXT> It's data driven. So I think that's essential. That should be. I know Charlie Gessner can whip that up pretty quickly, but as soon as drop ad settles,  that should be available to us in the actual. For starters, I do agree with The Saturdays. I think it's important.  Not really long, but I think, and I'm going to be, honest, when I, when I wrote my blurb for the ticker and I read other people's blurbs for the ticker,  I am student centered. I am I do believe in reinvesting in schools, but I'm also a fiscal conservative, and I advertise myself as such, and people have approached me as such. When I talk to people,  they're looking at us as the board, as their advocates here.  So I think that we have to pursue,  a tolerable tax base for people. I think it's our responsibility. I think that's why we were that's why they elected I. I'm assuming that's one of the reasons they looked at me.
NEXT> Unidentified: So the other thing.

[9315-235] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Superintendent: 'if I may, Chris, y | 2017-09-06
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Yeah. And that's why I want to talk at least for me again like if people need to decide I be I have a work schedule that makes that,
TEXT> No, no, no problem. For two hours on a night time that we're ready to sneak away from the kids, you know, whatever.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: It is. Otherwise.

[9315-482] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Patrick Adrian: I just wanted to just make yeah it it looks explicit. And I just want to make sure that I was clear because that was that was the only concern I really had was that one.
TEXT> The law. In fact, Patrick even specifies that youth risk behavior surveys will not be affected by this.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Right? Yeah. I just wanted to just kind of clarify that a lot. Okay.

[9315-548] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: I understand.
TEXT> That's not the spirit of it, but I could understand what you what you. But that's not right. I will tell you at the, at the welcome back. A week ago yesterday, we talked about the school board receiving pre and post test results at the elementary, middle and the high school this year. And it was very clear that these results should not be used to label blame shame point fingers. It's data. And what we do with the data will help to inform where we're going as measured by student success. So it would be inappropriate  to have a group or a department at a high school be labeled and blamed and fingers pointing at them because of student performance. It truly is what we do with that performance. Over time. There's accountability if things don't change, certainly, and I'm included in that. By the way.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Would there be a way. That you would suggest to change the wording so it wasn't perceived that way? Is that the point of a policy like, is that the

[9315-552] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Superintendent replies 'Frank is right' | 2017-09-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: I like the last paragraph a lot.
TEXT> Yeah. The last sentence of the last paragraph. It says the guidance counselor sponsor developing a program or plan that identifies student success in performance, social awareness and college planning. So if if the guidance counselors had individual plans for each of their kids, if that's an issue and they're improving.
NEXT> Unidentified: That.

[9315-561] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Superintendent replies 'Frank is right' | 2017-09-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may, Rebecca, you're absolutely right. These policies are draft, and the board has every right to critique. Edit. So this is not gospel. Absolutely.
TEXT> But I would I would like to see substitute some language around that. The guidance counselor responsible for developing and an individual learning plan for each student that would address students goals in the areas of if it happens to be academics, if it happens to be attendance or whatever, well, to fit the students needs.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And I think that's more of a, administrative. Deal where they're checking to make sure that that they actually are doing the work and advising, and they have a plan

[9315-562] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the agenda, calls votes; addressed  | 2017-09-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: around that. The guidance counselor responsible for developing and an individual learning plan for each student that would address students goals in the areas of if it happens to be academics, if it happens to be attendance or whatever, well, to fit the students needs.
TEXT> And I think that's more of a, administrative. Deal where they're checking to make sure that that they actually are doing the work and advising, and they have a plan for each student.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I guess it's the accountability of the board. I think we.

[9315-570] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: Bullet model?
TEXT> I could suggest the spirit of that last bullet or second last bullet is that there will be public discussions about our students, which we're doing more than just once a year. I could eliminate the phrase addressing the effectiveness of the school counseling program that could be redacted. But in fact, we are going to be presenting to you and.
NEXT> Unidentified: You like.

[9315-576] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: Rebecca. Do you like the. Okay. Thank you. And that that gives us we get to see something and it's okay.
TEXT> Not every district has a public discussion about student performance. And I think it's critical that we be transparent to the community, and it's critical for us to be transparent to you. It's nothing to be ashamed about. It's real live information, and we need to respond to it and make adjustments accordingly and not shy away from it.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Well, and looking at at attendance also. Absolutely. That's that's good to have. For discussion at the board level, I think.

[9328-3] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. And to the Republic for which it stands. One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
TEXT> Okay. We have an agenda in front of us.  I'm aware that there are going to be a few changes. Doctor Goodwin, thank you. I'm going to defer my superintendents report and make what I normally would say during my superintendent report in the discussion items. So I'm going to defer that to the discussion items, but also the Claremont Preschool Center progress reports scheduled for a presentation tonight. We're going to postpone that. There were a few other items that need to be,  resolved and clarify before I come before the board.  And so,  out of the best interests of all  that can be postponed to a future date. Okay. I'm going to get us back sequential again. So reminder to turn off all your cell phones and electronic devices and secure those.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Mrs. Woodman, could we do a roll call of attendance, please?

[9328-14] Unidentified | Public commenter, grandparent of a kindergarten student, on the lead-s | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: And I requested a waiver, and they said I would have to come before the school board to find out if there was a possibility of something like that. And I can tell you, and I told the school nurse for the does not school.
TEXT> I says, I can tell you verbally her her counsel love. She says it doesn't matter. The school board determined it's a requirement and in my opinion, it's a violation of privacy. And it almost verges on if you make it mandatory the way you have and somebody doesn't want to comply. I've had enough nasty notes from the school nurse or whatnot that if I don't comply with it, I've complied with all the administration records they requested. But I've basically had a note saying if you don't comply, your child won't be allowed to stay in school. And I don't think that's fair because it's not anything that's communicable. It's not going to hurt another child. I understand where you guys are coming from and the responsibility you are taking, but it should be the responsibility of the parents and the doctors, not the school department, to decide if my child gets tested, the doctor's responsibility. And I understand that you're looking out for the kids as far as their education is concerned, but you're testing for the same things, whether you have that piece of paper or not. And to this point in time, I have refused to submit that paperwork. And I've talked to an attorney and they said to come see you guys first about possibly getting away before this for the situation, because it's a violation of not only my privacy and what I do with my doctor and her doctor.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's a violation of everybody else's privacy, because what happens you guys going to do as far as, okay, are you going to have as high an expectation for somebody

[9328-15] Unidentified | Public commenter, grandparent of a kindergarten student, on the lead-s | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: that paperwork. And I've talked to an attorney and they said to come see you guys first about possibly getting away before this for the situation, because it's a violation of not only my privacy and what I do with my doctor and her doctor.
TEXT> It's a violation of everybody else's privacy, because what happens you guys going to do as far as, okay, are you going to have as high an expectation for somebody that's got high leg count? Are you going to be. Oh, they'll get they'll get by. Or are you going to have the same high expectations for somebody that doesn't have a lead comp? I have a feeling that teachers are going to see the kids differently, and that's something I don't know if anybody has thought of.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may, thank you for for your comments. The spirit of the policy was to inform parents the spirit was never to invade privacy. The school district does not

[9328-90] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Lexi Grenier: Thank you.
TEXT> Or actually, you can. You can certainly sit there. You have to go to the podium. And by the way, as a way of introduction, if you've had the opportunity to, go to Stevens High School and sit in the auditorium with some of our music  presentations and performances.  Lexi Grenier is one of our students that stands out. And I've told her that more than once because she does, like many of our of our student performers. So again, welcome, Lexi.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: Thank you. So here's the school board update for Stevens High School. Recycled percussion is scheduled to visit Stevens on Tuesday, September 26th. So that would be next Tuesday. They

[9328-104] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: groups of seventh grade students and follows them through. In this case, it's seventh grade and eighth grade and will follow them through high school, providing ongoing support as well as the opportunity for financial assistance. The goal is not to push students into college.
TEXT> The goal is to make young men and women aware of the opportunities and the different approaches one can take, especially if they don't hear that conversation very often outside of school.  And and with that, with that in mind, this week is Gear up National Week across our nation. And the schedule  that has that is in place at at at the Claremont Middle School  involves  a variety of different activities that begins to expose  all our students. Grades six through eight.  About college, about post-high school experiences and opportunities, whether it's a four year university, a two year,  whether it's a community college or whether it's just training beyond, in fact, talking with the gear Up   staff  that even the military  will be included in this because the military does provide many opportunities for young men and women  who choose not to go a route into immediately into work or into a post-high school educational experience. But the military does include many opportunities  for  academic advancement and  career readiness. Charlie Lovett, our mayor,  former school board member, will certainly talk to you about her experiences going from Stevens High School into the military and a career that spanned over 20 years, and the advantages that provided her at that moment in her life,  where we are, where she was upon graduation.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So there's going to be a 4 or 5 meetings of the Gear Up advisory Committee. There'll be reports to you as a board, and they are going to be

[9328-119] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Mister patron' [166] and | 2017-09-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Mister patron.
TEXT> On that note, I mean, being a long term Claremont resident growing up here, I think I was taken aback by the event,  for this to happen in Claremont. Maybe I'm naive. Maybe I've got blinders on, I don't know, but it opened my eyes.  As well as some of the the comment that Parker Smith made on Facebook. I think we all know Parker from sports, from drama, from being a recent grad.  So I took the opportunity to reach out to Parker myself, not as a school board member, not as just a community member.  And I opened up some conversation with him to see if we could get him to come back and speak to our students. I think coming from him, someone who has recently graduated, someone who, you know, a lot of kids know from my son knows from watching him play football and basketball and seeing him and drama.  I think some of the kids that know Parker and maybe hearing what he went through as as a student here, as a minority, may open some eyes because I was I mean, Parker was definitely a or is a fun, you know, upbeat what I've seen of him from a distance.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: And to hear some of the stuff that he went through from even when his friends maybe making a joke and they think it's funny and it really, had an

[9328-120] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Mister patron' [166] and | 2017-09-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: know Parker and maybe hearing what he went through as as a student here, as a minority, may open some eyes because I was I mean, Parker was definitely a or is a fun, you know, upbeat what I've seen of him from a distance.
TEXT> And to hear some of the stuff that he went through from even when his friends maybe making a joke and they think it's funny and it really, had an effect on him.  So I've started a dialog with Parker to see. I know he's way at college, and it may be a tough schedule, but,  and not necessarily, you know, maybe it's good to have him talk to high school, but I think hitting the kids young and talking to the elementary schools and, you know, through the middle school and including the high school, if we can. But, I can work with someone on that. But I've started that dialog with him.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So I think, if I may, Frank, I think that my comments like that your comment, your idea represents one of the bricks that's going to create this building, which

[9328-128] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michel' [174] and 'Miche | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: for inappropriate conduct. It's like an autopsy. You really want to have interactions before that bullying occurs, or at least something in place to slow it down or stop it. And that that is a systemic protocol and process that's going to take some training.
TEXT> Well, and again, it's the, the  instead of being reactive, we should be proactive. And this is an opportunity to become proactive more by looking at all of these different things and what we can do as, as a school board and the school system and, and a community. This is this is probably the best opportunity to really,  to, to get the education out there for the children. Adults get bullied. Children get bullied all the time. It's it's time to stop.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Two things I did want to say that this district does have zero tolerance for bullying in place already, but we definitely need to look at the implementation of, the

[9328-129] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Becky' [435] and speaks  | 2017-09-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: a school board and the school system and, and a community. This is this is probably the best opportunity to really, to, to get the education out there for the children. Adults get bullied. Children get bullied all the time. It's it's time to stop.
TEXT> Two things I did want to say that this district does have zero tolerance for bullying in place already, but we definitely need to look at the implementation of, the steps within the policies and the steps within the school systems where they,  divvy out punishments, consequences. Not those are the wrong words, but we definitely do need to take a look at the whole system  for sure. But just to bring it back to round to the events  piece of it and bringing the community together in such. There have been so many people, community parents, staff, students wondering about the recycled percussion event next Tuesday and they're all wanting to know how to get the elementary in the middle school there. So I'm just wondering, how can we make that happen? Because that is a huge event,  and we're talking about bringing all the kids together and having all of our kids hear the same message. So how do how do we make that happen? We got Trump in there.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may, Frank.

[9328-135] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Becky' [435] and speaks  | 2017-09-20
PREV> Patricia Barry: and everybody wants to be a part of it. And to to the degree that we can make the whole town a part of it. We will do that. But I'm only a small piece of of the planning process, and this is their thing.
TEXT> So I think it would be really great. And you you mentioned school messenger, but I think it would be really great if somehow what you said can be relayed to adults in community because, we keep hearing about recycled percussion and we keep seeing stuff on Facebook. Everybody sees it all, and nobody really understands what the true message is and what their intent was. So right after everything that's going on in our community,  of course people are going to want  all of the students there, rightfully so. So I think it would just be  wise to let parents know exactly what it's for and why, and so that they understand why elementary and middle school are not included at this time.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And that's what Middleton and I were, were in the process of.

[9328-145] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michel' [174] and 'Miche | 2017-09-20
PREV> Patrick Adrian: No, I know, but yes, I think messaging too, because I don't want to see a, I don't want to see bitterness, in the community over.
TEXT> Well there shouldn't be any bitterness or there shouldn't be any.  Oh we that's not fair. We don't get to do it because it was simply it. It is what it is. And they I mean, three times they chose all around us and then they hit us, you know, I mean, they chose here, you know, people were on their from all, you know,  I even posted to ask them to come. So you know, and not as because I had a child and in grade school I mean Deegan doesn't know what recycled percussion is. I guess what I'm trying to say is, is that Stephen was picked and Stephen's high school is, is, is the provider. And and it's a bummer that it can't be everyone. However, everyone can be super excited for Stephen's and and show their enthusiasm that way. I mean, there's nothing saying that, you know, Justin might be able to stop in the middle of Broad Street Park and everybody can assemble there for 15 minutes. I mean, you might be able to, you know, convey that to him and that the school, the families can bring the kids from school and meet there. It's just it's just not fair to feel bad if your your school did you get picked.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: They want it to be about a positive thing. And yes, we're going through a lot of negative things. However there's a lot. There's there's much more positive about one

[9328-163] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Doctor a good one. Food service.
TEXT> Just an update. The food service is into its second week. They told Abby group told you last month it's going to take anywhere from 3 to 6 months to really iron out all the kinks. They're making some personnel adjustments, they're making some adjustments. And the way things are,  are, are going. But  I've been eating in the different cafeterias and I've been talking to students and generally it's it's a positive change. But I don't think we've seen  everything that Abby group is going to provide because they're still in the process of learning more about the school, learning more about what the students want, what the administration want, what the parents want. So  I'd like to keep you up to date that this goes forward, but so far so good. And if I may, Frank, strategic Action plan  update tomorrow the administrative team is going to sit down and start to take apart the strategic action plan. And a good part of that is going to be focusing on the budget, because the budget is fast approaching.  And if you look at the strategic action Plan, it talks about  how we're going to  assess how we do business and what strategic change  would be necessary to benefit students, and also to  align itself with the reality of a decrease in funding.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I'm not sure how that's going to play out. The school board obviously is going to be involved with this, but we status quo is is going to be difficult

[9328-167] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: When you say here physically.,
TEXT> It's going to be in the community room, it's going to be in the business community room.  There will be a she Congressman Custer is going to tour the school, and then she's going to have  an open discussion  with individuals who wish to attend. That's going to include local representatives from from the businesses as well as Red River Whalen  and also  Claremont Makerspace, River Valley Community College, local Chamber of commerce Joel Schneider, representing sugar River Valley Regional Tech Center. But it's going to be open to the public.  And I think, you know, Chris Iris was here. He would he would be pleased at this because he has a question. Is this facility what is this facility really meeting the needs of our students going forward? And if you recall, two years ago we had a study done, Newport and Claremont with our respective tech centers and some retrofitting needs to occur. And part of that was the the preschool program that was  revised this past year, which was going to be discussed tonight. So there's a there's quite a bit more coming with this. And  I'm very pleased that Congresswoman Kuster will be here.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. So we're going to move into action items, as Milton just said on a was going to be here. They are not. So we're going to move to

[9328-173] Larissa Cahill | Theater arts teacher, Stevens High School; scheduling committee co-lea | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: Oh, okay.
TEXT> Good evening. I want to introduce the scheduling committee. I'm Larissa Cahill, I'm the theater arts teacher at Stevens High School. And and with me, I have Christine Downey, who is also with me. And we have several representatives, both.  Oh, sorry. It's just right here. Corey. And several representatives from the scheduling committee.  I'm sitting here tonight, and we wanted to give you an update as to the work that got started and that the work that we are planning to do, and it's quite extensive and we're really excited about it. So we'll get started in just a moment. But the first thing that we're going to talk to you about tonight is we're going to show you what our statement of our beliefs are, and to give you a little background as to where we started with that. As doctor McGowan mentioned, we we met  started meeting at the beginning of this around springtime of 2017. But I think where we really started gelling with our work was sometime in the summer when we sat down and thought about what an ideal schedule would look like for our students and for Claremont, New Hampshire. And we had several pieces of paper all over the room, and we just wrote and wrote and wrote, and we all chimed in with what our beliefs were about, what we thought a quality schedule for Stevens High School would look like.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: And I feel it was at that summer meeting that we stopped being administrators and educators, which was our initial task to come together as and yeah, so we were

[9328-179] Larissa Cahill | Theater arts teacher, Stevens High School; scheduling committee co-lea | 2017-09-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Should we did not leave Little Middleton or can you?
TEXT> Here are our members. We have five administrators and five teachers coming together to work on this project and to create a schedule for Stevens High School that works for the Claremont community, so they can go to the next slide. The first thing we want to talk to you is about our statement of beliefs.  We are first reflect the first thing that we wanted to acknowledge is that a schedule, the schedule that we want to work with reflects our community values and belief.  And what it boils down to was Claremont Pride that we want to create something that's for us. We don't want to copy what somebody else's work is, and that we want something that works for the needs of our community, our unique needs in our community, the talents that exist in our community, and to make something that is uniquely ours. And if we created ourselves  and we work with community members and teachers and students, everybody together, that we can make something that works best for Claremont. So what we want to start with is acknowledging what we do well, celebrating that success and not throwing that away because we do it well, but also look at potential growth areas, what we need to work on, what can we do better, and that what we want to do is create something that works for all of the students that come before us. So moving on to our next slide.
NEXT> Christine Downey: So the second belief that emerged out of our activity of kind of just brainstorming what we think an ideal schedule would be, is this commitment to flexible and personalized

[9328-180] Christine Downey | Stevens High School scheduling committee co-lead (introduced by Lariss | 2017-09-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: also look at potential growth areas, what we need to work on, what can we do better, and that what we want to do is create something that works for all of the students that come before us. So moving on to our next slide.
TEXT> So the second belief that  emerged out of our activity  of kind of just brainstorming what we think an ideal schedule would be, is this commitment to flexible and personalized learning for students. And this is at the very core of the district Strategic Action Plan.  In that strategic action plan, we talk about student centered learning models. And so this is the core. So  in our discussions about what do we mean by flexible personalized learning. These five sub bullets that we have underneath really speak to that. We want to talk about student services and interventions, how we can help all students at all ranges of learning.  We also want to be able to really create that student,  agency at Stevens High School, that choice and voice option. We want to provide the multiple ways for them to demonstrate competencies in a variety of ways, but yet make those course loads manageable for students,  opportunities to meet curriculum, instruction and assessment expectations in all disciplines. That, again, goes right in alignment with the District Strategic Action Plan. Say that five times fast, right.  And and the focus on having a viable, guaranteed articulated curriculum in all our areas beyond Stevens K to 12.
NEXT> Christine Downey: We're talking and actually preschool through 12. I think the other thing is this varying lengths of courses to support a model that allows for that personalization and that flexibility,

[9328-181] Christine Downey | Stevens High School scheduling committee co-lead (introduced by Lariss | 2017-09-20
PREV> Christine Downey: instruction and assessment expectations in all disciplines. That, again, goes right in alignment with the District Strategic Action Plan. Say that five times fast, right. And and the focus on having a viable, guaranteed articulated curriculum in all our areas beyond Stevens K to 12.
TEXT> We're talking and actually preschool through 12.  I think the other thing is this varying lengths of courses to support a model that allows for that personalization and that flexibility, but protects the sequencing and timing of how we want students to progress in learning, to ensure that all our students graduate with the skills, the concepts and the dispositions to be ready for whatever opportunities they pursue. You know, beyond the walls of Stevens High School. Next slide. Thank you Robin.
NEXT> Unidentified: This very well.

[9328-184] Larissa Cahill | Theater arts teacher, Stevens High School; scheduling committee co-lea | 2017-09-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: work, and weigh in on the work that's going on, and all of your voices will be heard. We want that kind of reflection from everybody. So we want to make sure that that is being done. If we could go to the next slide.
TEXT> And provides collaboration. One of the things that I think I'm into my 14th year now at Stevens High School, and for all 14 years people have been saying, we've been working together in small ways and in big ways for big projects, big initiatives like the committee and things like that that have come through. But many of us want time to work together. We want time to create partnerships with the community, with each other. We want specific time for collaborative work, and so we want to make sure that we're providing that within a quality schedule, that there's a two way flow of communication. We've got great professional growth happening, interdisciplinary studies people to work together to create the type of 21st century learning that our students need. And we want to make sure that this is done intentionally, and that is happening on a regular basis. It's designed into the schedule and embedded in that work.
NEXT> Christine Downey: I'm going to add one thing to that, Larissa. This, core belief also is not just about collaboration among staff. It's collaboration among all our stakeholders. That means collaboration from

[9328-185] Christine Downey | Stevens High School scheduling committee co-lead (introduced by Lariss | 2017-09-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: people to work together to create the type of 21st century learning that our students need. And we want to make sure that this is done intentionally, and that is happening on a regular basis. It's designed into the schedule and embedded in that work.
TEXT> I'm going to add one thing to that, Larissa. This, core belief also is not just about collaboration among staff. It's collaboration among all our stakeholders. That means collaboration from student to students, staff to student, student to administration, vice versa, etc. we want to build that environment. We know that collegiality and collaboration is important into anything that our students do, right? Teamwork is essential.  A few years ago, reports came out and said, number one reason people are terminated or fired, typically from employment is their failure to get along with others. And so we want to make sure we have a schedule that promotes that in all aspects of what we do.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: We believe that a quality schedule utilizes community and school resources productively. So we know when we got together over the summer, we all talked about our dream schedule, the

[9328-186] Larissa Cahill | Theater arts teacher, Stevens High School; scheduling committee co-lea | 2017-09-20
PREV> Christine Downey: reports came out and said, number one reason people are terminated or fired, typically from employment is their failure to get along with others. And so we want to make sure we have a schedule that promotes that in all aspects of what we do.
TEXT> We believe that a  quality schedule  utilizes community and school resources productively. So we know when we got together over the summer, we all talked about our dream schedule, the thing that we would love to see as educators, we would love to see for our students the opportunities that we would like to create for them. But we understand reality, and we understand that everything comes at a price, so that we know that we're working within the parameters of  of the budget that we have, that that we have to be fiscally responsible as we're talking this through. So we are aware of that, even though that we want something that's big and we're excited about the work that we're doing, we also know that within that there's there is parameters with,  a budget. And so we have to maintain fiscal responsibility while we're doing this work. But at the same time, with that, we can be flexible with our thinking, too, that we can start thinking more creatively, thinking about community partnerships, thinking about education beyond just the classroom wall, and seeing what we can do with that along with this work.
NEXT> Christine Downey: So we just quickly wanted to let you know that under all of our work is the District Strategic Action Plan. So we looked at that, two page document of

[9328-191] Christine Downey | Stevens High School scheduling committee co-lead (introduced by Lariss | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: That's the next one.
TEXT> And the second area, we definitely saw links to curriculum and instruction, again in the curriculum instruction and an assessment area of the strategic plan, it is all about creating this model of student centered learning. And what does that mean? And we need a schedule that's going to support that. We don't want the schedule to drive or to dictate the learning. That is only options for kids. We want to be able to think, we want to schedule where, yeah, we know some of our options are going to be limited. But as Larissa said, that's where we reach out to our community partners who can help us as well to expand those learning opportunities. But we don't want the schedule to confine our kids, and that's a big core belief for us moving forward. And the last area engaging community resources, we see that as a huge part. We can't do this alone. And so we need to make sure that throughout this entire process, we are reaching and communicating to all our stakeholders and involving community partners in this work, so we can pull off.  What we'd like to get really close to is our wish list about really having a school environment where kids needs can be met, and whether it's through our walls or it's through walls outside in our community.
NEXT> Christine Downey: You know, that's what we want to be able to promote, and we want to be able to have a school schedule that allows for that flexibility to happen.

[9328-195] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (committee administrator: 'as Corey ha | 2017-09-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: do this thoroughly, and we get as we hit as many people as we can. So we assume the timeline for this is just collecting that information from people is going to take from the start of the work in August and continue through November.
TEXT> Can I just interject quickly? I think one of the things that we've learned with some other implementations in our district is that sometimes the step has been, not given its due diligence. And, and one of the things that you'll continue to hear from my  colleagues is we have a very clear articulated plan. This is phase one,  of of how we expect this to go. And that's what we're here really to share with you this evening. But something to keep in mind  is our emphasis and focus on making sure everyone is involved that can be involved in a meaningful way along the way, so we don't end up at the end with the result that is very different or disconnected from the will of our students, of our teachers, in our community. So as you look through and hear about these phases, know that that is intentional. And part of a lot of the discussion that we've had of of how to make this work the first time this time, and work well based on some learning from other things that have happened in the past.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: I think we're ready to move on to the next slide. Phase two will be creating criteria for effective schedule design. So that's going to be including or we're going

[9328-201] Christine Downey | Stevens High School scheduling committee co-lead (introduced by Lariss | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Phase five is really now okay. We think we have a model. We've already done some continuous communication loops with people, so there should be no big shockers. It's not going to be some big unveiling. We want to keep this conversation always going so we can troubleshoot anything in advance. But then phase five would really  be then when we're going for that consensus of all the key parties that need to be involved the board, the union, the accept. But if we've done our job well in communicating throughout all our phases, that consensus is probably just going to be something of a mere logistical thing that we have to do. It shouldn't be a time when big things or big revelations are being uncovered, right? If we do our job well,  and so that's phase five. And then phase six really becomes, okay, now that implementation plan that we worked on in phase four, in phase five is going to begin to be implemented. We don't know. We can't tell you right now. Are we going to have a perfect schedule built for the fall? We can't tell you that until we go through this process. But what we are keeping very mindful of is what are some of the minor tweaks and adjustments we can make to face things in over time? We have to think about that from an educational programing perspective for our students.
NEXT> Christine Downey: If we drastically change a schedule, how do we affect, for example, kids being able to obtain 27 credits to meet our diploma with distinction track? Right. So we need

[9328-202] Christine Downey | Stevens High School scheduling committee co-lead (introduced by Lariss | 2017-09-20
PREV> Christine Downey: go through this process. But what we are keeping very mindful of is what are some of the minor tweaks and adjustments we can make to face things in over time? We have to think about that from an educational programing perspective for our students.
TEXT> If we drastically change a schedule, how do we affect, for example, kids being able to obtain 27 credits to meet our diploma with distinction track? Right. So we need to think about that. And how do we implement changes? In what impact is that going to have on our educational programing for our students? Okay. So we do want to in phase six, we anticipate starting whatever some of those initial components may be on a schedule that we can tweak with the least impact possible. And any of those tweaks that may require higher level impacts may be fiscal things that need to occur, resources that need to occur. But have all those play out, do they play out? Is that an area where we say, nope, the limit of the schedule has to stop here? We don't know yet. Until we get knee deep into this work. Yeah.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: What we feel is very important, and what we agreed to in our first meetings is that everything that we do will be completely transparent to the entire public. And

[9328-204] Christine Downey | Stevens High School scheduling committee co-lead (introduced by Lariss | 2017-09-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: to go along with that and to have it be user friendly for students. So we're seeing it as phasing in for phasing in over time for a couple of years, but also coming back and revising it, and that's what we're looking to do.
TEXT> So I think the important part of this slide in what it's saying to you as board is that this committee right now, two days standing in front of you saying, look, while we thought this might be a one year commitment, this committee is willing to stay together and make it a multiple year commitment, whether we make revisions or not, it is to continually check. Can we get to a place where we can say that schedule stable. We've got reasons behind it. We've got the documentation. We're good. We can kind of put this to rest, that we have a structure that can support the flexibility and the personalization we need at Stevens to make good opportunities happen for our students. So this committee is willing to go above what that MOU says to to really say, let's do this. Let's do this well and let's make it sustainable.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: I'm going to speak for myself on Senator Robin. I'm going to speak for myself and not speak for the committee members. But I think the revelation for me, for

[9328-225] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (committee administrator: 'as Corey ha | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: Important to see them that I suspect.
TEXT> I think it's important to consider we're looking at all of those options.  So we have all come to the table and set any ego aside and personal agendas aside. So although Robin teaches seasonally and would really like, you know, X, Y, or Z,  we are working on a consensus model. So to tell you today what the what we think or project the M schedule would look like, I can't even do that because we haven't created what our criteria  are. And so so I can't tell you if we would be looking at a partial dismissal on any given day. I can't tell you if we'd be looking at a 730 to 206, day at this point, it's it's we have created the structure to get to that answer in a way that is, with consensus and inclusive of people's desires and expectations and the needs primarily of our students. And so additional questions about what do we think it will include? You'll get the same response. So you might as well skip those for tonight, but we will be back in front of you more than once between now and whenever schedule gets approved and implemented. So we will keep you updated with that as it as it develops. But at this point, if that's something that you would like to put on the table, we'll give you a post-it note.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. So.

[9328-244] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Christine Downey: and we represent, but we've got to build those relationships so that people trust what we're doing and that when we have to present some difficult things, we can do it. And we we have that stakeholder by. That's an important aspect of our work.
TEXT> I just wanted to say, you know, lots happened since. January. 2017 when there was a memorandum of understanding. And I am very, very comfortable where we are now  knowing that the end is not in sight, but we're in a very different place than we had been the past few years where there's been there's there's been a two different factors going at it, if you will, where we had disagreements. Now that's been put aside. The contract is not driving this. What's going to drive it is what's in the best interest of the students. It's going to be a participatory effort with faculty and with the community.  But under all that, it's got to be affordable. So we're in a better place shaping a model which is yet to be shaped versus, this is what we're going to do and let's hope it works or let's force it, force fit it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's like, I guess I would go back to what Michelle asked then is what what do you need from us?

[9328-247] Christine Downey | Stevens High School scheduling committee co-lead (introduced by Lariss | 2017-09-20
PREV> Christine Downey: other area is frankly time. It is the timeline that Emily was pretty specific also about, you know, implementing whatever's going to happen in the fall of 18. We think we can implement components of what it is that may come up in our discussion.
TEXT> We're not sure we can implement a full fledged schedule change across the board in the fall because of one of the examples already made, which puts our students at the center. As we have to understand their educational program. We can't  if kids aren't a certain track, and they predicted that track out based on the schedule, we got to be sensitive to that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The committee the committee met with me and explained that to me. We had a good candidate discussion. I totally support the direction they're going. I totally support it.

[9328-250] Charlie Gessner | Stevens High School staff member on the scheduling committee, speaks o | 2017-09-20
PREV> Christine Downey: to what happened between going from the a, B back to the block, back to the that in what it did to world language and some of the things that. So Charlie, I don't know if you want to jump in and kind of just.
TEXT> Yeah Frank. Knows because he's been in the government for a while. Foreign languages took a big hit because under the old schedule, which is currently our schedule this year, kids could, as an example, take German, the one in the fall, German two in the spring. When we did the whole a, b every other day that was done. So now getting on track, it's been very, very hard. You know, the level three and four classes especially took a hit. And you know, coming out of that, we want to make sure that whatever transition that we make, as Christine mentioned, as a minimal impact on kids, right? We all want what's best for kids. The other thing that we have to keep in mind is that when you guys start looking at the program of studies, we're in the planning phase of that in late fall. So November, December. So you kind of have to know what you're doing for 1819 as early as November and December. So when these guys say let's do something incrementally speaking for next year, yeah, there will probably definitely be some things that we can do. It's safe to say that whatever plan gets fully developed, it doesn't really shake down until 1920. Okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Charlie.

[9328-307] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (committee administrator: 'as Corey ha | 2017-09-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: Nice.
TEXT> So you had heard about the shantytown event back in the spring?  And some of the money they raised was able to support the National Honor Society. And then this amount will go to the one for all space. So essentially it's going back to our students in our community. So thank you. Nice job. It's too bad it was rainy. Yeah, it was.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: A little.

[9328-332] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (called up as 'Pat' [191], 'Pat Barry'  | 2017-09-20
PREV> Patricia Barry: be able to do that to some degree. When I come back to in budget season and I talk about a line item that I want to add into my budget for this, this is my this is my pre argument to you for that.
TEXT> This is a very aggressive agenda and, and it's and you'll see it's not in the price range that we want to get it. We want to get it to be seven and $800. Nancy Lewis and I sat down and we already talked about  what is on here that are non-negotiables and what are some things that we could cut out of here to make it much more affordable? For me, some of the non-negotiables of the Holocaust Museum, Arlington, the US Capitol tour, Smithsonian and and the mall,  and and some fun things for our kids. Like a cruise along the Potomac with a dinner dance, something like that, where everybody gets dressed up and gets to just go down, down that river and see everything from the Kennedy Center to the Washington Monument. It's life changing. These kinds of trips are life altering for kids. I've seen it. Many of our seniors are.  I'll testify to this. They asked the bus to go out to the ocean on their senior class trip because they'd never been to the ocean, and. And that that kind of hurts my soul a little bit, that that our kids are getting to that age and  haven't had that exposure to even just the sea coast of New Hampshire.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So, we're looking for your permission tonight. It is an overnight. It's a four night overnight. But what I want to tell you is the structure of this is so

[9328-339] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (called up as 'Pat' [191], 'Pat Barry'  | 2017-09-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: How are you going to be able to earn the money per student?
TEXT> It'll be on the students until we can build something significant or, you know, stable into the budget as a line item. That's their and and this is the case with with all these programs. The beauty is that they do the majority of their work online. So kids will have an online, almost like a GoFundMe account with F tours. They'll go on there that parents can pay by the month. And a payment plan, a student can say instead of getting me a bike from my birthday or giving me cash for my birthday, can you put it into my F tour account for me to go to Washington, D.C.? They also offer some scholarships through F tours that students can apply. So.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So if you have 20 students that would need that, they can apply. Right okay. And when I mean are there obviously if we are we're looking for a motion

[9328-351] Unidentified | Unidentified - ninth grade student speaking for the Washington, D.C. t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Absolutely.
TEXT> All right. Well, I feel like this as a ninth grader myself would be an amazing opportunity for me and the students inside of the ninth grade. The class of 2021 at SAS. It'd be a life changing experience,  because I know just today we've been talking on the board on how, you know, kids are talking about things that and they're not completely sure what the things mean. One of the things, for example,  that was on the tour that really got me was the Smithsonian museums or specifically the Museum of African American History. I feel like going to these events and seeing the sights and learning the history behind what our nation's founding and the horrible things, but also the good things that happen inside of our nation, will really give our students a broader perspective  on what our nation is really like, instead of just something that they heard from the news or something that they heard from their parents. So I feel like that would be a really great idea. And also, students. They really need to  travel. I've had the fortunate experience of going to Washington, D.C. for a fuel up to play 60 thing with the USDA,  and just in one day I learned so much, and I had a fantastic opportunity with that  to see all the monuments and everything.
NEXT> Unidentified: And I'm sure there would be countless other students who would really enjoy and get something out of that when they would go to D.C. and for people to travel

[9328-361] Unidentified | Unidentified - music teacher, Stevens High School (2012 alumna), propo | 2017-09-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Thank you for coming back to the community.
TEXT> Of course. It's fun. So, yeah, that's that. I mean, if the kids are great. Yeah, yeah. Anyway. Okay. Any Italy trip? Basically, I'm opening this up to a small group. Just my band and choir students, because it's further away than DC. And I'm one person, but this would be a 1 to 6 chaperon ratio being far away. Same safety things that happen with the DC trip in terms of they get the safest hotels and the safest districts all have private bathrooms, no sharing hostels, whatever. None of that. They're in triples, quads, stuff like that. We also have a private bus so we never have to take public transportation. So that eliminates theft and safety issues there. For me this is important. I also my family is half from Germany, half Canada. So when I was younger, I had the privilege of traveling every other year. And that for me, just built me as a person.  And then in college, I actually went and I studied abroad in the summer in Italy. And so I stayed on the coast, the east coast of Italy and, take classes Monday through Thursday.
NEXT> Unidentified: And I spent three days. I spent three days in each of the places on this tour. So for me, this would be super cool to bring a handful of

[9354-1] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: And and I know that's going to happen. And I will talk a little bit about that in a minute. But we can never forget what the Claremont School District is about. September 26th, Stevens High School welcomed and had a $30,000 concert, Recycled Percussion.
TEXT> They came to Stevens High School to recognize and acknowledge Stevens High School, and in essence, to recognize the knowledge of the Claremont community. I will tell you that this Friday  at 7:00 Friday, October 6th, WMUR  is going to be telecasting that concert that took place at Stevens High School,  which which is very, very positive. I will also tell you that the next day, September 27th, another measure of our school district was a community service, and there were Stevens High School students throughout the community with their red shirts. And I am told by Pat Berry  that the students are still on cloud nine. From the excitement of of  of  that   terrific concert, Corey LeClair and I were up in the balcony supervising,  and it was the electricity was phenomenal, absolutely phenomenal. But I also don't want to,  to get our middle school and our high school, too, because if you if you go on to their websites  and you look at the,  the Eagle News, the CMS Eagle News, you see a great deal of,  of student centered activities that are occurring  aside from the academics.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And, you know, it's interesting with what has been happening and and the different comments about, in some cases, what we're doing or what we're not doing. And, and I

[9354-3] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: we're we're on board and that we make adjustments accordingly. And some of these policies I'm recommending to be revised, one is 11 years old and others are 8 or 9 years old, and there's been changes in the law, so they should be revised.
TEXT> But where I'm going with all this is simply this.  I was at a law conference today in Concord, but I heard second hand that there was some defensiveness from some of  my colleagues,  which I want to share with you, because, you know what? It's okay to talk about what's positive and what's perhaps a little challenging, and and some of that had to do with, you know, we sort of feel that the community doesn't the community doesn't really think we're doing enough in our schools. And one example of that was that the elementary schools, every morning, they have  a responsive classroom,  responsive classroom.  Is the opportunity to help our students create a safe and positive learning environment,  working with each other in a respectful way,  building community.  But if the if certain people didn't know that they were thinking, you know, they don't know what, we're really working hard to build community to how we how we help children in the elementary school develop a positive and collaborative relationships, age appropriate relationships.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So the reason I'm, I'm, I'm bringing this up is that one of the greatest challenges we have right now is communication. And that my hope is and my plan

[9354-6] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: at the definition of racism, the term racism does not easily fall under a single definition. Racism practices often include the ideas that humans can be subdivided into different groups because they're different due to their social behavior, their capabilities, their ideas where they look.
TEXT> So racism is really about is a is an umbrella that covers many different types of behaviors. And so that being said, let me just share with you what one parent wrote.  Send it to me a few days ago. Bullying is a real problem. Racism is a real problem. Claremont is not above all of this, but we are  called to address these issues the very best way in which we can, only through working together as a community and with the school district, law enforcement, businesses, congregation, families, students collaborating. We will begin to find solutions. Our children are the future and we need to handle them with care. So what I'm proud about is that we're talking about this, and what I'm proud about is that we're going to build together,  a plan that will have a major impact over time, but it's not going to be a quick fix. It's not going to be an inoculation. It's not going to be an accelerant or an Advil. And I feel better. It's going to take time, patience, perseverance  and the and the and the willingness and and  the the comfort zone  getting out of that comfort zone, of having candid, polite, civil conversations, communicating and then over time,  a better community.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And it's going to continue. So I just wanted you all to know that, I don't think I've ever had a superintendent comment like this before, but I think if

[9354-7] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Advil. And I feel better. It's going to take time, patience, perseverance and the and the and the willingness and and the the comfort zone getting out of that comfort zone, of having candid, polite, civil conversations, communicating and then over time, a better community.
TEXT> And it's going to continue. So I just wanted you all to know that,  I don't think I've ever had a superintendent comment like this before, but I think if we're really going to go forward, we have to be willing to appropriately talk about the elephant in the room.  And then to together, without pointing fingers or accusations or excuses. Build, build. And  the ultimate benefit of the entire community, just not our students. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Just not on this. But just to note, we forgot to add the student rep report to our agenda.

[9354-36] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Cory LeClair: That's right.
TEXT> So will we see that prior to that coming out in the stages that and if we don't feel I mean, I just especially where these guys were absent last time, I, I think it's important to bring that up because the schedule is is a bone of contention because we don't want to disrupt the kids, which is the most important. But at the same time, we want to be able to to bring a positive change to the situation without it taking years. It's, you know, years to figure it out and then years to, to make it the first time.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Do we have an update of that we could have for next week?

[9354-49] Lexi Grenier | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (self-identified; A | 2017-10-04
PREV> Lexi Grenier: more important than anyone else. Everyone matters and kindness doesn't cost anything. The next day, which was Wednesday, September 27th, which Doctor Mick Goodwin spoke about was Community Service Day. Groups of advisories went to Fort number four to help close up for the season.
TEXT> They spread bark, mulch and did other playground maintenance at all three elementary schools.  A lot of my friends went to the elementary schools, and they mentioned how fun it was to, like, hang out with the kids for the day and teach them how to do all different stuff.  Some advisory to stay at the high school and did some high school maintenance, and so many other great places. They visited some other great places.  Everyone had a good day and accomplished a lot to help the community in school. Our next meeting. Our next All Schools Community Service Day is set for Thursday, April 19th, 2018. We welcome requests from local businesses, organizations, and individuals for work that they need done. This Monday was both Miss Berry and Miss Day for his birthdays, so a huge belated happy birthday to them. Students at Stevens High School. Everything you guys do for us. So thank you.  Last Friday night was the Stevens High School homecoming dance. I went with some of my close friends and had an amazing time. I'm sure everyone else that went had a great time as well.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: This year's homecoming king is Brendan Behan, and this year's homecoming queen is Chelsea melnick. Congratulations to you both. If you're watching, because neither of them are here. So this

[9354-51] Lexi Grenier | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (self-identified; A | 2017-10-04
PREV> Lexi Grenier: also pretty busy. So on the 14th, the Stevens High School Marching Band will perform in the Dover Marching Band show. And that's where a bunch of high schools get together and we all perform our field shows for each other, and it's pretty exciting.
TEXT> It's a long night, but pretty fun.  On the 28th, Stevens High School Band will perform in the halftime show at UMass Band Day at Gillette Stadium. Guidance has scheduled to have all students signed up for Navy by December 20th. We will have workshops scheduled each week to accomplish this goal. We have scheduled. Yeah. Schedule college application workshops during flex to prepare our December 1st. I'm college bound day. We are formulating a plan for pre-employment workshops during flex for students during second semester. The theater department is in rehearsal for our fall production of The Hobbit. Performances will be at the Claremont Opera House on November 3rd and fourth at 7:00 pm. We are currently holding auditions for The Miracle Worker, which is the advanced theater performance scheduled for January. Please consider joining the Stevens Student Communication Club. We will partner with Claremont Community Television CCTV to share our student story with our community through television and social media. We are looking for club members who want to learn the roles of on camera hosts, reporters, social media models, Facebook experts, video editors, photographers and videographers.  I am honored to also be a part of this as long as student voice and student voices starting tomorrow during flex.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: So that's pretty exciting for me. Just more to add to my busy schedule already. Here are some sports updates. Girls varsity soccer took a 2 to 0 win on

[9354-53] Lexi Grenier | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (self-identified; A | 2017-10-04
PREV> Lexi Grenier: and their families involved with the Las Vegas shootings. We had a huge table, probably as these long, as long as these two tables put together, and it was just lined with paper and everyone signed their names and wrote messages of love and support.
TEXT> And they are being delivered to recycled percussion in Las Vegas. Justin shared that he had several friends who were shot at the concert for who luckily survived, and they wanted. They wanted to give our students the opportunity to reach out with their kindness from every student and faculty member. We send our love, support, our prayers and strength to the families of those victims of the Las Vegas shooting and to Tristan, Hannah's family and friends. We are so sorry for your loss.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Nice. That's great.

[9354-56] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Well.
TEXT> Do we have any questions for our student rep?
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, I think I'll ask her. I was going to test Cory, but it goes back to the recycled percussion. Could you check with the CCTV people, perhaps to see

[9354-68] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School German exchange program teacher (na | 2017-10-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Can you have the information before you and staple the white packet?
TEXT> Letting me come and speak to you? My every two year haunt of the school board. I do have the things in between, but,  that's about the only time I get to see you. First off, let me just say that I am deeply grateful to the school board, to the district, to my high school, to all sorts of businesses,  the middle and elementary schools, private individuals around town who all contribute every time we do this to making it a really meaningful experience for both our students and the visiting students from Germany. It could not happen without all these people working together, and  we've done it for almost 15 years now. And I and I  am deeply grateful for everything that this town has done to to support this and keep it going. Having said that, it's time once again for us to begin organizing the exchange for the 20 1718 school year. And you have information about  the approximate dates. We haven't said anything in stone yet because I was waiting for approval.  But this is sort of the general outline for those of you who are new to this particular experience. The Germans  School, our partner school in Altdorf, which is in northern Bavaria, will come here sometime around Easter vacation, which is for them an opportunity to visit without missing too much school.
NEXT> Unidentified: They have two weeks off during that time, so they'll come here. They all attend school, they live with host families. They will travel around Claremont, the surrounding area, a

[9354-69] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School German exchange program teacher (na | 2017-10-04
PREV> Unidentified: outline for those of you who are new to this particular experience. The Germans School, our partner school in Altdorf, which is in northern Bavaria, will come here sometime around Easter vacation, which is for them an opportunity to visit without missing too much school.
TEXT> They have two weeks off during that time, so they'll come here. They all attend school, they live with host families. They will travel around Claremont, the surrounding area, a little bit of greater New England, Boston, Portsmouth, things like that. Getting a feel for what this region of the country is like. Hopefully building relationships, friendships and things like that, having positive experiences while they're here. Then in middle, middle mid-June, I think probably the third, second or third week of June, we will travel to Germany and we will stay with host families there for two and a half to three weeks doing a similar kind of thing. You have both the calendar for activities the Germans engaged in when they were here in 2016, and I gave you the German version of what they planned for us when we were there. So you if you look at that, you can see that there are things going on just all the time. It's not a let's just sit around and look out the window kind of experience. Both sides work very hard to give all of the students of varied and very rich experience. And, I don't know yet exactly what is in store for us when we go to Germany, but I anticipate that it will be something similar to what we've done in the past.
NEXT> Unidentified: And so having said that, I intend any questions that you have about the mechanics of the program, this year's version or anything else that I can speak to? Yes,

[9354-82] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: It's like, yeah.
TEXT> I, I had the opportunity. Obviously, over the years to to meet these kids and the,  it is so good for our kids to interact with kids from other cultures and,  Europe. It's just, it's an amazing opportunity for our kids. And obviously, there's just nothing else like it. So obviously I support this 110%.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Do you? Are there any any changes in your from years past?

[9354-91] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Right.
TEXT> I can't say enough. I didn't realize it been that many years. I think it's phenomenal that you've just provided this for our kids for so long. Having lived in Germany three years, I get jealous every year. And dating not one kid is needed, a butler or a valet to go with them to help them go back. But I think it's phenomenal. And I spent 15 minutes trying to figure out my Google settings because I opened the German calendar first and I was very confused. I'm sorry. So that was great.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think there is an English version of that floating around somewhere, but I couldn't for.

[9354-121] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Chris Irish: is. But we're more than ready to help find the way out. Not just dump it is feet and say cut a million or whatever. I think it was. I just want to be really clear. This is very much the groundwork of working together.
TEXT> I'd like to dovetail off that very quickly, but I think that it's important to stress that it's,  aggressive. But we always talk about how we need to make goals and shoot for them. We've talked about that many times here, and we've also talked about here how we really need to take  a  hard I think I think these are your words, actually. We really need to take a hard look at all areas, and not leave anything out. And I think that the point behind this is not the cause alarm. It's not to cause discontent. It's not to cause chaos. It's just to,  hopefully open up a dialog and  hopefully work up a proactive place where we can all,  work towards the common good, which is doing the best for our community and our kids. So I just want to say that it's not about I don't like I, I keep hearing that people are going to be panicked. So I just want to say, everybody take a big breath, including myself, because it is aggressive, but it's also a place where we can really be honest and really, make some big changes, potentially for good, even though it.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Sounds messy with, with this. Is that that that's good. Leave no stone unturned. But one of the directives is no reductions in instructional staff, so that that doesn't really

[9354-133] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: would hate to have administration do a lot of work up front and then then have us pull the rug out from under. So we're trying to be as proactive as we can with this. And, but I will say we are we are committed.
TEXT> Just to Doug said. And this is serious, as honest as I can be. And it came up Saturday. The reality is it's not. Your job is to educate the kids. Your job is not to sit down and bring your hands and worry about tax base. That's not your job. It's ours. We're the ones that  ultimately have to be the bad guys and do the heavy lifting. So it's like I said earlier, meetings ago, whatever you propose, I know you believe you need and you can justify it. That's not even the question, but I don't want you to think for any that that came up on Saturday. Your job is to do what you do so well and that's run the school district and educate our kids. Our job is to try to find that balance. And sometimes the scales have shifted and that's the crisis, but it's not on you. This tax crisis has nothing to do with you, per se. It's not your job. I firmly believe that. It's our job to deal with this now.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Thank you. Brian. May I please. Thank you. Chris. But I just want to say that if you go back historically, the past few years be increased in the tax

[9354-141] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: of that back into the pre K programs. My, the my concern was that the funding that we're getting is not full kindergarten funding. I mean so we're still not fully funding the kindergarten. And then we're kind of putting it into an expanded program.
TEXT> And and I do understand the point. I do understand the purpose. And one of the things I've wanted to to learn about it would really help, once having a presentation from the pre-K program and getting an idea of what we're doing. But it does start getting very difficult when we have very tight resources. And I think members of the community and these are and I don't think I'm just the taxpayers, but they're their parents with children in the district. You know, a lot of people have different feelings about where we should be investing the money for the children. And what would be what's the most effective one isn't I'm not trying to say that that the priest K isn't, but,  now I do worry that we, you know, on one hand, we have this. You know, I really like the strategic,  the five year plan that, you know, is still. Needs to kind of get the, the public presentation, everything. I, you know, I really like the plan, but at the same time, we're we're battling this, you know, how we're going to work with resources, you know, in, in a financial crisis. I want to make sure that we keep that the, you know, at the one for all center.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: If if grant funding became an issue and we had to I really like what's happening with that. I want to make. So those are the kind of questions I

[9354-243] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Okay.
TEXT> One last thought for you that we've had a conversation about it before.  The tuition and transportation,  for sitting kids out,  I know it's not going to happen overnight, and nothing happened this year, but I'd like to I'd be interested in looking what the cost would be. And you got to spend money to make money? Yeah. To bring those kids in, to keep the kids here.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's a discussion we've had many times.

[9354-246] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Yeah, there was me.
TEXT> We've tried. We've tried this past year. We tried to bring some of the kids back  to to save money, but, just.
NEXT> Unidentified: Some successfully, not.

[9354-250] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Are you thinking more.
TEXT> Of like thinking more? There's a need for placements for these kids, not just our kids, you know, kids here that are going up, but we have kids.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And that discussion as well. And the the problem has been finding a place to do that.

[9354-290] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6 (first name only on record: LeClair  | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: really didn't take a good look at special education. And that was kind of my top priority. And I feel like I might have not really got into it as much as I wanted to. And this year I really want to look into it..
TEXT> Absolutely, positively. Yeah, I know our our our this whole Brattleboro conversation as we go forward, we're really feeling because we've had this conversation before about what our kids and some of the the trauma that they've experienced and some of  the behaviors that we're, we're seeing  that are unsafe in schools. And we've got to solve the out of district component here, because those numbers  are going to continue to climb, because we can't meet their needs here, because we don't we really don't have that skill set to,  to deal with that, those kinds of behaviors at this point. So Brattleboro is just one, one answer to to to help with that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: But potentially we could have the skill set.

[9354-297] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: So class rank.
TEXT> There's information regarding class rank by Thomas professor Don in Kentucky.  Two years ago,  a high school, Stevens High School graduates parents sat down with me and they said my daughter was a plus. Throughout her public education in  in Claremont. But she was not valedictorian. And the reason she wasn't valedictorian was by her choice was because she  chose to take certain types of courses. I am very much a proponent of recognizing student achievement in and honoring student accomplishments. But if you think  of al, Taurean is the actual accurate person with all due respect, in comparison to his or her classmates. As far as the number one student, it's really based on the courses they take or they don't take. If you take a fine arts course, if you're involved with instrumental music, if you take a tech center course, your points will go down. Now, I'm not sour grapes, I'm just saying I think it'd be important to ask the high school faculty, the high school administration  to revisit this.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It's not the high school's responsibility, but I. I want to do what results in students not competing against each other, but rather working toward learning. It's not about I'm

[9354-350] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Some people don't.
TEXT> But most of us do. Sometimes don't. But what I'm saying is, is in its inherited in our doctors. I understand that, that when we go, we know that we have to have x, Y, and z shots done to our children. And then our children get a report and that report goes to the school.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And I understand this and I'm in full agreement. I love the policy. What I'm not in love with is telling the parent what they have to do, just like

[9354-365] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: It's just something that we don't have to know it now, I guess something to, you know, when we come back to I.
TEXT> Think it's something new. And I think that it's like the ammunition that we have to kind of get used to it and get acceptance of it.  It's going to be a huge benefit for our community, because it'll give us the ability to see where we can help sooner than later. So we're becoming proactive instead of reactive. Our children will go into school and they'll have the benefit if they are high lead to have. If I'm not wrong, I think all of this was built upon making it a better place for our children to learn, in essence. And, and and I guess  I urge anyone to look at it like you go in for your yearly checkup with your child. You're physical. We have to have a physical for our children to go to school, and we have to have up to date immunizations. And when you go to the doctors, it's a six and under thing that they do now. So it's so it's becoming a habit and, and and it's something new. So for a lot of people something new and change is going to be hard. However, just I think that sometimes we're missing the most important part of this, which is that we have the opportunity to be proactive.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Finally, we're showing proactivity by by having this policy, by having the ability to make sure that our children get the education that they deserve regardless. And and this is

[9354-366] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: and, and and it's something new. So for a lot of people something new and change is going to be hard. However, just I think that sometimes we're missing the most important part of this, which is that we have the opportunity to be proactive.
TEXT> Finally, we're showing proactivity by by having this policy, by having the ability to make sure that our children get the education that they deserve regardless. And and this is one more thing that can help them, especially, you know, children that are exposed in a in a community that is considered historical. So we're looking at, you know, some monumentally awesome things. And I every time I kind of hear the waiver and the negative side of it, I just want to bring it back around to the positive side and how important it is. We do live in a, you know, in, in an architect, a world that's elderly. We live in a world where our buildings aren't, you know, built in the 1970s and beyond, there in the 1970s in past.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Right. And, you know, I, I think the points for me, I think, I think this policy was mostly done to as a stopgap because it's supposed to be done

[9354-381] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-10-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Heard to.
TEXT> I know that there is potentially a plan for for some to gather tomorrow.  Around the letting out of school around 2:00. Near the middle school. In the high school.  I believe this comes from a good place. I believe it comes from a place of caring and and from adults who want to do something positive.  I. I  don't think it's coming from a negative place. My concern is that that the schools have never been contacted about this. The students have never been spoken to about this. Nobody's come in and said to the kids in the middle school or the high school. This is what we want to do for you or with.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: You.

[9354-383] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-10-04
PREV> Cory LeClair: You.
TEXT> On Thursday, October 5th. I it has not come from a student centered place. It has come from an adult place. And I would urge the adults in the community to think about that high school student,  many of whom come to school traumatized from a variety of life experiences, and for them to leave at 206 and to see strangers, and potentially police presence, potentially media presence outside their school. For many students, that will not be a positive experience. We have we have been on a high. Yeah, right. I think I've felt it. It's been palatable for me in that school since last Tuesday.  It the work that we have all done continue to do in our schools around behavior, around morality, around kindness, around goodness and giving back. Community service bullies are eliminated or tamed when students are given positive reinforcement, when they're given something good and something engaging, that's where bullies disappear.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: They disappear in that environment, not by people holding signs and not by people demonstrating. And my fear tomorrow is that this will somehow rip the scab off a wound

[9354-385] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: we have to fix. We have to have a way to make that young lady and the other kids who really define themselves in that way, change their view of themselves. And that's through kindness. That's through building them up and making them feel special.
TEXT> And like, like Justin said, there is nobody, no faculty member, no student in this building that's any better than anybody else. But we have a lot of kids who don't believe that they inherently don't believe that in our school. And so I wanted to speak to my my fear that  out of a good place, more damage is potentially done when our community partners don't work with our kids, don't come into our schools and talk to us about what we are doing to prevent bullying and to change behavior, and to make our schools a better place, but do things in separation from our schools that could potentially make our kids feel worse about themselves.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So I would ask publicly, if I may, I would ask publicly that those who were planning to demonstrate take your energy and your interest with this difficult topic and

[9354-396] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: We and that was announced. I mean, well.
TEXT> I haven't I haven't announced this to to to the kids because I don't want to raise their level of concern. I don't want them to be thinking about it throughout the school day, about what's going to be waiting for them, if anything, when they leave the school building.  It's, it's a, it's a, it's a balance. And I guess I'm a little bit resentful that I even have to think about my, my students mental well-being because external forces have decided to make a statement outside of our school buildings without working with  us. And so that's a frustration as an administrator. And I don't want to raise the level of anxiety for my kids. I want them to focus  on school tomorrow as much as possible. And it may be a very,  benign demonstration. I don't know, I don't know what to expect, but I do know that Claremont police may be there because there is a public assembly and a gathering, and that's what they do. They show up to keep people safe in those situations. For some kids, when they see a police officer that in genders anxiety just immediately.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I guess my question to you, I think got missed. Maybe I asked it wrong. Have you announced to your school of talked about the tragedy back in August

[9354-397] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: that Claremont police may be there because there is a public assembly and a gathering, and that's what they do. They show up to keep people safe in those situations. For some kids, when they see a police officer that in genders anxiety just immediately.
TEXT> So I guess my question to you, I think got missed. Maybe I asked it wrong. Have you announced to your school  of talked about the tragedy back in August and counseling being available, grief counseling being available, or whatever type of counseling? What other than the social media and the school kids talking to each other? I mean,  obviously we're talking about a general assembly  of the rights of people to gather to, whether calmly protests or not. Broad Street Park is should it should be the place to do that  in front of a school I don't think is appropriate because of the fact that, Public assembly shouldn't be held in front of the school. It should be held at Broad Street Park where all the other ones have been held.  And that's my and my feeling on that. However, more importantly, is my concern and my feeling for  all of these children that are going through this without the police coming and talking to the group of children as an assembly or or having where it needs to start. So I.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Guess so. So part of my point, I guess, in, in all of this is that we didn't start doing this stuff August 20th 9th or September 5th of this

[9354-398] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: on that. However, more importantly, is my concern and my feeling for all of these children that are going through this without the police coming and talking to the group of children as an assembly or or having where it needs to start. So I.
TEXT> Guess so. So part of my point, I guess, in, in all of this is that we didn't start doing this stuff August 20th 9th or September 5th of this year. We've been dealing with these issues in a variety of ways in all of our schools. All along. We did not want to address that particular situation with the entire student body. Yet, because it's an ongoing investigation. We want to be mindful of how we talk to our students and how our students talk to each other about it. We want to be mindful of of bringing the community in so it can be a real holistic conversation about race and diversity moving forward.  We've had some other issues at the school. We lost a former student recently.  Students have been grappling with that.  So we always have our crisis counselors on on stand by and their to handle students who are dealing with anything throughout the school day.  And they do. And our students have they have an open door policy and our students have an open pass policy to go see a crisis counselor with with any concerns at any time.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: I think the time will come in the very near future for us. There's going to be a flex enrichment opportunity. The two teachers have taken on to have conversations

[9354-405] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: that I wanted to publicly state that sometimes when you do something from a good place and you're doing something that you think is right, you may not be thinking about it from the shoes of the individuals you're trying to help, namely the students.
TEXT> My concern is, is that we always have to have people do presentations of something they want to do with or for around the children of our community regarding this.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So planners to plan is is to demonstrate off school property on public property, this sidewalk it's.

[9354-412] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Know some.
TEXT> Of those, I. I  wanted to bring this up because, I mean, I feel bad because Erica Ray was sitting there and even brought a guest. I didn't, you know, she has a child herself in the school district and probably couldn't stay. I don't know the reason.  I didn't, and,  you know, seeing that she did want to have a presentation feel bad. I do understand. And by the way, I, I do understand. From, I think, student perspective and the, the perspective of our educators.  I do understand that concern. I think she and she had a conversation directly with the parent who, who or the citizen who reached out, I guess, wrote the letter. And she's very aware of it, too. I don't know what she she's been thinking about. It gave me a lot of thoughts. So she does take it seriously. But, you know, the one thing I don't I think it's really important for that people here to understand what this is about. And I'm kind of disappointed that it's the information has been out there but hasn't taken the time to understand. It's not a message to the students. Well.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I'm not going to let you do her presentation here tonight. Not going to happen.

[9354-431] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: People as anxiety over what they don't understand, then we're contributing to the anxiety.
TEXT> If if they have a plan where they want to engage our students or have some sort of thing, that is a demonstration of support for our students, it is in everyone's best interest to deal with the administration, to deal with the students, to engage them and really see if it's going to help, if it's going to be something that they are going to accept as students.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: It's a message to engaging the adults in the community, parents, and part of our.

[9354-433] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: It's a message to engaging the adults in the community, parents, and part of our.
TEXT> Part of our students.
NEXT> Chris Irish: They're not engaging anybody. Patrick, I'm beyond angry now. Here's the reality of the situation. Once again, Mike Charest and his group along with these people.

[9354-436] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: It's not his project.
TEXT> He said it in the email. I haven't read it. Once again, he started the fire and water. I'm not really a part of this, not my issue. We all saw the email. They said they'd be here, there tonight. They didn't stay. They didn't have the courage of their convictions to have a conversation with the people. They're going to try to steal these kids again.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: That's not fair.

[9354-442] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Is we need.
TEXT> To stop allowing them because they posted it. If they don't have the guts to stand here in front of us on television, in front of the city and say, this is our this is the point, we're going to show up anyway. After what she just said. They don't care about our kids. They don't care about our community. They care about an issue that they're trying to promote. And I'm done with the issues. We need to fix this, okay?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I'm they. And to be fair, they had an opportunity to speak at citizens.

[9354-465] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: place and a place where they want to help. Sometimes help can be misguided, and sometimes that that that energy could be better spent. If we communicate about how better to deliver that message in a way in which it's going to be positively received.
TEXT> So the message the community is really think about what it is you're trying to do tomorrow and think about how that is going to impact the children that are going to be coming out of the schools. Exactly. Really think about it.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Because the important thing is, is.

[9354-468] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: That's the message.
TEXT> We had. We, we the important thing is for the children to have the opportunity to understand the situation. Erica has a great plan. Bring the plan up, bring it in front of us. Allow it to go forward.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So two points. I don't recall jumping on anybody. Rebecca. Second point is Middleton. I did reach out and I'd love to hear what the follow up was, what the

[9354-617] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Chris Irish: of this stuff. You know, a lot of the strategic stuff is done for purpose. That is done for a purpose that I totally respect that part of it. So for me, it's more how many bodies do we have? And then go from there?
TEXT> I want to I want to before we close. I just want to make sure that that the community and the people here in the school system and anyone else knows that anything that anybody does good is a wonderful thing.  And I know Erica and I know she's got something wonderful. And I just want to say that in late of listening to the student rep and Pat Barry, that my concerns are that we hear first and then  follow joining in or not. I think that I hope that the community here is that the right way and not negatively. I we're really trying to be proactive. We're trying to be  ahead of the game and not behind it.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So does anybody have anything for next agenda?

[9357-32] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: also very important to note is that this policy has been received very well. We've received when this was approved in late April, in the spring, we received phone calls from local pediatricians and primary care physicians, even from Vermont, wanting more information about this.
TEXT> And other school districts, in fact, have asked for this policy because it's intended to assist families. It's intended to provide information for the wellness of their children and for some background information. As we've discussed,  the Claremont portion of the state, as well as other parts of our state, have a very old  housing stock. And because lead paint was outlawed a few years after,  in the mid 1970s,  when it was outlawed in our, in our country. And before that, lead paint was a very  popular,  exterior, especially exterior paint. But I,  I used to work in the summers  as a painter, working with a professional painter. And the pain of choice was lead paint  today with the with chemistry and with  the advancement in technology.  Latex based paints now have the same type of durability, but it was very, very common. The concern was that we now have,  because many  homes still have lead paint underneath layers of latex. The concern has been an increased risk  for lead exposure. And we we've learned that when children are very young and they have exposure to this lead, it has a major impact  on their their wellness. And we've learned not only  the impact on on the child as far as their ability to learn effectively, to behave effectively.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: In other words, there are so many different variables that impact the wellness of the child through no fault of the child and in many cases, the the unawareness of

[9357-33] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: learned that when children are very young and they have exposure to this lead, it has a major impact on their their wellness. And we've learned not only the impact on on the child as far as their ability to learn effectively, to behave effectively.
TEXT> In other words, there are so many different variables that impact the wellness of the child through no fault of the child and in many cases, the  the unawareness of the parents. So the goal has been to  have parent be aware and to have their children tested at least twice with the normal blood work that occurs, by the way. With the well,  well, baby checks to have  led also be a part of that and to identify any elevated, elevated levels of lead which can inform the parents  that their child is being exposed because without that testing,  lead poisoning or high levels of lead oftentimes don't show any symptoms. And I'd like to, if I may, talk about  aside from the lead, and I want to say one thing we did at the last school board meeting had one parent who was concerned about the lead policy and felt from her view, it was an invasion in their privacy.  The school board listened to the resident, and the school board is going to revisit the lead policy. I think there was some misinformation that the school would have a lot of detailed information about  each child.  But all that aside, the school board is going to revisit and perhaps  consider an opt out phrase. But the lead policy has been very successful, has been greatly received by by the community. What's interesting, though, this year we have implemented a new food service company,  the Abbey Group.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Approximately 90% of our former food service employees are working with us still, which is great. But what's interesting to note is that research has shown that diet does help

[9357-36] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (presiding at the joint meeting) | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: districts are following our suit. But again, this goes back to the benefits of the city working with the the leaders in the community Valley Regional Hospital, other municipal leaders and the school district. What can happen when you partner and work as a team?
TEXT> I know councilor shared with us recently,  that he you had lunch with the kids and elementary school.
NEXT> Unidentified: I got to go out to Avenue School and I talked with I was amazed, what a leap forward from when I was in school to the the options. But

[9357-37] Unidentified | Unidentified - City Councilor who had lunch at an elementary school (i | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: I know councilor shared with us recently, that he you had lunch with the kids and elementary school.
TEXT> I got to go out to Avenue School and I talked with  I was amazed, what a leap forward from when I was in school to the the options. But it was it was really interesting to be able to talk with the kids about what they like about it, and to see people going up and choosing salad bar. And  I really like the fact of if you were still hungry, you could return up there. But,  just going around the room talking to them, they were about what vegetables they liked or didn't like. And, you know what? They didn't want to try or what they, they had the courage to try. It was interesting. And,  it seems really, really well received by the kids there. So I thank you for that opportunity.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Can we also have that opportunity? Okay. So I'd love to experience it. First.

[9357-44] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (presiding at the joint meeting) | 2017-09-28
PREV> Michelle Pierce: There's a lot of parents and kids that are expressing how wonderful it is and excited again, some loves it. It's amazing.
TEXT> Wonderful food is important. The right kind of food is important for so many things. So I'd like to thank the school district for the invitation to participate in Back to Back to School Festival, because we use that platform as an opportunity to provide, free led screenings to  the children that were coming through the, the festival. And I  was able to  be there next to the nurses who were administrating the screenings, and I was amazed at how many questions people had, how well received it was. We were very busy. We screened over 40 children. Some of them were afraid of needles, even though it was just a fingerprint. And so depending on the situation, we advise them to probably go to, you know,  their pediatrician or the hospital just to to be an environment where it might not be so traumatic. But,  I was very, very pleased with the reception that the parents gave as far as their willingness to have their children tested. So there were a few tests that were high, a few results that were high in reading. And then the advice was to follow up with the hospital, get a second,  blood test, not just a finger prick. So,  I hope we'll be invited back to do that again next year.  Because it seemed effective. It helps spread the word.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: And we are we're also able to give out, information on lead and the impact that it has on the person's body and, and hand out apples, which everybody seemed

[9357-45] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (presiding at the joint meeting) | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: in reading. And then the advice was to follow up with the hospital, get a second, blood test, not just a finger prick. So, I hope we'll be invited back to do that again next year. Because it seemed effective. It helps spread the word.
TEXT> And we are we're also able to give out, information on lead and the impact that it has on the person's body and, and hand out apples, which everybody seemed to like. We didn't have many apples left. So over the summer, as you know, Valley Regional, their pediatricians have been very  diligent in screening  one and two year olds, and sometimes they are screening older children if they haven't been tested previously. And I'm happy to say that August has been a wonderful month between July and August. If you recall, the CDC recommends,  no more than five micrograms per deciliter. The state threshold is ten. They're trying at the state level to bring it down to match the CDC threshold, but that hasn't happened yet. So, in the last two, in July and August, those children tested at VRH3 were between 5 and 9 micrograms per deciliter. So that, as you remember, does not create that automatic protocol where the state gets involved. But unfortunately two were above the ten microgram deciliter. So the good news is August was a much better month than July. So I don't know if that has to do with just luck of the draw. You know which kids were being tested that month, but we have been,  averaging every month as a community, 3 to 4 children  being poisoned.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: And that is at the ten or above threshold. So when we can get below that and at the same time increase our testing rates, our screening rates, that's wonderful

[9357-47] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (presiding at the joint meeting) | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: to help improve their homes as far as removing or encapsulating the lead in their homes, so that we also at our next city Council meeting, which will be in October, we are going to have someone up from the USDA Rural Development Office for
TEXT> the region to give the city council some information on their programs, so that will be televised. And and you can watch that at your leisure. So I believe in a nutshell, the city as a whole is trying very hard to one ensure we have the educational materials available so people can be educated on the topic, and that we identify the resources to help people deal with this situation. And then at the same time,  we have sent down to the policy Committee  the their assignment is to work on creating a lead policy. So that will have that on the the city side. But we didn't want to create a policy without ensuring that we had done the legwork, first, of making sure people were educated and had some resources that they could apply for. So at the end, when we get through this whole process, there will really be very little reason why people don't address the issue and therefore we'll be protecting the health of our children. And one other thing, we recently,  had some repair, renovate and paint program sessions where you can be certified to deal with lead based paint. And I believe there was also another another  session that had to do with, Mr. Schneid. Correct. Where they're bringing.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Yes, yes, there is going to be training where they can be the, the students and the staff can become more and certified in the lead abatement.

[9357-49] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (presiding at the joint meeting) | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Yes, yes, there is going to be training where they can be the, the students and the staff can become more and certified in the lead abatement.
TEXT> So that's going to be part of their curriculum for the students and the tech center. Correct?
NEXT> Unidentified: Correct.

[9357-59] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes the presiding voice at the opening, a mem | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: Talking about 36 kids a year in a student body of 1800, roughly. That's what percentage, I don't know, but I.
TEXT> Think it's 36 kids in an age group, though not of right. It's not all the kids. It's 36 kids within an age specific age group, which is different than all the kids. Yeah.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: They're focused on 0 to 6. That would be the age group.

[9357-69] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Ben', 'Jason Bender'; later a sch | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: That's what we hope.
TEXT> The other quick question I wanted to ask was, has there been any question when you test these kids, if they live in apartment buildings or if they live in single family homes?
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: I believe I'm not I'm not a nurse, but I believe that's the protocol. There are some questions that they do ask, and if it is above ten micrograms per

[9357-101] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: be a part of this. And it talks about Claremont and it talks about where the city of Claremont is headed. So I just like to share that, aside from lead screening, I'd like to talk about gear up, New Hampshire, gear up, New Hampshire.
TEXT> Gear up is a is a federal grant. It's been around for quite a few years. And this year past year, New Hampshire was a recipient, but only certain communities were a recipient. But before I do, I would like to share with you that the Claremont School District has a five year goal, and the five year goal is to demonstrate five years of measurable student growth in the core academics. And we believe with our five year goal, we'll be standing out as one of the top Hampshire school districts because of that measured growth over time. And this measured growth will be basically focusing on reading, writing and mathematics. And it's one of our goals. We're in our second year of this goal. 100% of our students will demonstrate measurable growth. That's the goal in the second goal  of academic achievement. Goal is also to continually measure our students writing and their growth in writing from the beginning of the year, mid-year, and then toward the end of the year. And these pre and post assessments will be discussing these publicly at the school board meetings will not about students, and we're not going to be comparing one school against the other.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But it's critical that we have transparent discussions about the growth of our students. And if we're not pleased with their growth, what we are doing about that. The other

[9357-102] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: beginning of the year, mid-year, and then toward the end of the year. And these pre and post assessments will be discussing these publicly at the school board meetings will not about students, and we're not going to be comparing one school against the other.
TEXT> But it's critical that we have transparent discussions about the growth of our students. And if we're not pleased with their growth, what we are doing about that. The other one of the other goals is that we want to improve the student attendance. And the goal is  90 minimum of 93%. And additional goal is which which is the segue into Gear of New Hampshire, is that we want to encourage and support students to apply and be accepted to post-secondary institution training after high school, whether it be college,  community college, or additional training. And that 75% of the students who are accepted to attend the days of a high school education being sufficient to make a livable wage in many cases has now becoming very challenging. And so it's going to be important that students do receive the support and hence gear up. New Hampshire Gear Up stands for gaining early Awareness and Readiness for undergraduate Programs. We have this year identified and this is how it works. We've identified two cohorts, grade seven and grade eight, and those two cohorts are being exposed to different opportunities and different  venues where they can become more aware of their opportunities and more aware  of the of  of what goes and what lays beyond high school, especially for for children who don't hear about,  education after high school, during, during dinner or during  oftentimes family conversations.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So what what is gear Up really all about? The concept is to build bridges between the high school businesses and colleges to better prepare students for success. Create a

[9357-103] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: venues where they can become more aware of their opportunities and more aware of the of of what goes and what lays beyond high school, especially for for children who don't hear about, education after high school, during, during dinner or during oftentimes family conversations.
TEXT> So what what is gear Up really all about? The concept is to build bridges between the high school businesses and colleges to better prepare students for success. Create a college going culture so every student embraces the idea that causes is possible, and that isn't done by a brief  assembly program or by a book. But we're going to be following these children from the middle school. And every year, grade nine, grade ten, grade 11 provide additional support and different opportunities so they are more aware. Design an academic model that promotes college enrollment and preparedness, and commit businesses, high school and college, and parents to make students future ready. And so the exciting thing about this is that a few years ago, I think it was two years ago, 40% of our students graduating from high school went right into work. There's nothing wrong with work. But the question is, of all those students who went into work from graduating from high school. Were they aware  of other opportunities that could provide them additional skill sets? Were they aware that they don't have to be very wealthy in order to go to college or to go into training beyond that? And so it's it's it's providing students with exposures to different opportunities, visiting the colleges, having college fairs, and following these students as they proceed through.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So we're not talking about talking to students when they're juniors in high school, but now starting to talk with them when they're in the seventh grade. And we're very,

[9357-115] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: can look at the the negatives of having teen pregnancy rates and all of those things. However, the beauty of that program is that it's an opportunity for us, our staff, to work with those parents to help them become educated on how to parent.
TEXT> We have the high school students in our care, and we have that baby in our care, and that allows us to coordinate our efforts and and meet the needs of both, because they're both our children.  We  also partner closely with  JAG, which is also in that building jobs for America's graduates. I think Kathy Saxon kicked me for not remember. Exactly.  Thank you. And JAG is an opportunity for students to get  to finish some credits, to get some,  career training to help them become viable and contributing members of  our community.  The other childcare piece at that location is  drop in care. So if family members have meetings at Hope for recovery,  recovery meetings or things of that nature, that's not an appropriate setting for young children. So they can bring their children to us while they're in the building. We watch their children while they're in the building and attending,  the services they need to attend to become better parents and, and,  not better parents, but the the. To get the resources and needs met that allow them to be a parent. Really.  And they're able to connect their child with us.  When families are in our space, we can not only work with the children, but we work with the parents on how to engage in early literacy and early numeracy strategies with them. We have  all sorts of families coming and going and taking advantage of it.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Sometimes you'll have up to 25 little children in there, all 0 to 5 years old and their parents. That gets a little bit chaotic. But, the more children, the

[9357-116] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: are in our space, we can not only work with the children, but we work with the parents on how to engage in early literacy and early numeracy strategies with them. We have all sorts of families coming and going and taking advantage of it.
TEXT> Sometimes you'll have up to 25 little children in there, all 0 to 5 years old and their parents. That gets a little bit chaotic. But, the more children, the merrier. The staff are,  and they're they're really loving that. We have the building construction program here, building our  outdoor play space at one for all.  The money was donated by the Couch Foundation and the Byrne Foundation to build that outdoor play space. And so our students are,  the ones doing the work to build that space at one for all. So shortly you will see a lovely,  vinyl deck on the outside in front of the building. And that will be the outdoor play space for our young children in our  our child care program. We're also in the process of becoming a CFP,  certified or a provider. What that allows us to do is feed all of the kiddos nutritious meals and have those meals reimbursed. So,  we currently do everything in our power to provide diapers, to provide the formula, to provide things of that nature for the children, particularly when they are in our care.  And this is just one more step in that to ensure that, you know,  we don't rely only on donations, but then also have the opportunity to have reimbursable meals.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We partner with lots of different agencies. We partner partner with Jags. So if there are students with childcare needs who are working and engage with the JAG program, they

[9357-123] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: more frequently through the week. So there are lots of things I can talk about in terms of what we are doing as a school district to support our community, some other things listed up on this particular page, or the Back to School festival.
TEXT> We did change location this year. We had an issue with parking, which was the concern on the front side. And yes, it was still a concern on that day.  We've already begun brainstorming some ways to address that a little differently next year, and I think overall it was well attended the space that Barnes allowed us to,  spread some things out that needed to be spread out, but also consolidate some things that needed to be consolidated and also limited the traffic through children. And when we were at manana, it was a great space. But the way the traffic pattern flows,  you were continually driving through. The groups of people, and that was challenging. If you were trying to navigate a car and not find somebody over.  So having it at Barnes, where we can really separate the vehicles from the venue was, was helpful. This year. We had a beautiful day for it. Dylan Tenney was able to come and do some magic, and it really kicked off the air nicely. I think. Something to remember for everyone. The Back to School festival is for all of our children in our community,  not just as subpopulation of children in our community, and all families are welcome and encouraged to attend.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's not just about free backpacks, although those are available there for those who need and want them. There are. I think last count was somewhere around 38 different vendors

[9357-124] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: really kicked off the air nicely. I think. Something to remember for everyone. The Back to School festival is for all of our children in our community, not just as subpopulation of children in our community, and all families are welcome and encouraged to attend.
TEXT> It's not just about free backpacks, although those are available there for those who need and want them.  There are. I think last count was somewhere around 38 different vendors this year at this year's Back to School festival, so we'll be doing that again.  It is always the. We used to do it the Saturday before school started, but when we switched the calendar last year to start after Labor Day, we had to back it up a week. So it'll be the last Saturday in August,  before school starts. That's not the Labor Day weekend, Saturday, whatever date that works out to be. And the last thing up here that I'll just talk about briefly is the children's community lunch. We partnered with the New Hampshire Food Bank,  New Hampshire Catholic Charities. They came in. This is the second year they ran their children's community lunch. We had better numbers this year. This year's locations were the soup kitchen,  Nema on North Street and,  the middle school and Maple Avenue School. And it's just an opportunity for any child in our community ages. 18 and under. They don't have to be in the school system. There's no financial requirements of any kind. You can,  there's no income  levels that are allowed or not allowed to attend.  And it's just an  opportunity for all of our children to receive a healthy lunch,  during the week, during the summer months when school is not in session.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Right. As of today, we have 55% free and reduced lunch across our district, so we have 1812 total students PK to to 12. Over 1000 of our students qualify

[9357-125] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: of any kind. You can, there's no income levels that are allowed or not allowed to attend. And it's just an opportunity for all of our children to receive a healthy lunch, during the week, during the summer months when school is not in session.
TEXT> Right. As of today, we have 55% free and reduced lunch across our district, so we have 1812 total students PK to to 12.  Over 1000 of our students qualify for free and reduced lunch.  I don't have the breakdown yet by building, but over 1000 of our students qualify for free and reduced lunch. And so many of our children,  who experience food instability, having an opportunity for  a guaranteed meal through the summer weeks when school is not in session is is important. This year we were able to offer meals for the adults to last year. There's some strange requirements. I say strange, there are some USDA requirements because the food is is predominantly purchased through the USDA Food Service Program that make it so that only children can receive that lunch. But through some other sources, we were actually able to  guarantee some additional funds and resources to provide a meal for the adults who attended with the children. Last year, it was only the children. So if I showed up with my two children, my kids could eat, but I couldn't and they couldn't bring the food out if they didn't eat at all. And some things like that,  we were able to make some adjustments for this past summer, and it was well received by.  All that attended.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's predominantly volunteer run, and it's something that we plan to and hope to continue in the future. So in terms of I think the agenda topic was how the

[9357-126] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: my kids could eat, but I couldn't and they couldn't bring the food out if they didn't eat at all. And some things like that, we were able to make some adjustments for this past summer, and it was well received by. All that attended.
TEXT> It's predominantly volunteer run,  and it's something that we plan to and hope to continue in the future. So in terms of I think the  agenda topic was how the school districts,  initiatives are, are, are currently giving back to the community. These are some things that we do for the community that are not solely for students in our schools. Because all of the students in our community are  our  our students. And this is a way, whether they attend, the public schools or not, if they're not yet age appropriate, if they're homeschooled, if they attend one of the other two schools in town, this is a way for  us to to work with all of our children across our community.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: There's been a great deal of work. And thank you, Corey. There's been a great deal of work and commitment to investing into early childhood education, of investing in children

[9357-129] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: predominantly for our identified population. And this year we really made the effort to switch it to being a an early childhood program. So the the breakdown of students with disabilities compared to students who do not yet have disabilities, it is typically 34 students.
TEXT> Right now we have 34 students who do not have disabilities and 18 students with disabilities.  And that's  that's the ratio we're, we're currently working on. We know  that,  we are currently getting referrals. We've already had five for children who turned three in December and January. The because of the federal regulation to provide these services for students with disabilities, we have to keep some slots open throughout the year because it's not the year in which a student turns three. It's the moment at which a student turns three that those services have to be in place. So if I turn three in August, that's really convenient for the school system because we can plan for you for the start of the year.  But if I turn three in December, I have to take you in December.  And so we, we just keep some slots available because we know that that will happen throughout the year where we're adding children part way through. So,  we also are the first district in the state offering transportation for our preschool program. So preschool is now available to our community, any community member, free and transportation is also included. Our children who attend in the morning get breakfast and lunch, our children who attend in the afternoon get lunch.  And this is the first time we've done the bussing piece, so we're still figuring that out. This year, also, our three year olds are attending three days per week.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Excuse me? Where? Last year, they only attended two days a week, and our four year olds are attending four days a week, where last year they only attended three

[9357-130] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: the morning get breakfast and lunch, our children who attend in the afternoon get lunch. And this is the first time we've done the bussing piece, so we're still figuring that out. This year, also, our three year olds are attending three days per week.
TEXT> Excuse me? Where? Last year, they only attended two days a week, and our four year olds are attending four days a week, where last year they only attended three days a week.  All of our services are offered in that program as well. So occupational therapy, physical therapy, speech language pathology,  any of those services that the children need  are offered in the preschool setting. We have some folks who specialize in autism. They were in the program. And so the children come. It's actually held in this building. They come here, they get what they need.  And we're able to take a step toward offering universal preschool  for all of those in our community. The last thing to comment on that was shared with me by the director is that  our The Early Childhood Programs community Outreach, will take place at Fisk Free Library.  They actively support 1000 books before kindergarten by keeping track of the number of books  they read to children each day.  Host a weekly read aloud and related activities to  at the library will start in October.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So our program is collaborating with the library and really pushing, the early literacy and early numeracy, kindergarten readiness and things of that nature. I almost brought for you this

[9357-155] Scott Pope | City Councilor; tech center instructor (addressed as 'Councilor Pope'  | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: It was last week and the panel that she had.
TEXT> Included one of my students in the director from the center and also local businesses. And the one common thread was the need to train people, get train of old people, which is also another factor. And students with interest in this. And they were not looking just for students at the high school, but people in general. The River Valley people had mentioned some of their training initiatives as well, and they were met with, they're there met well. So it's about the need for getting the trained people at this point. There are jobs available and good jobs, and they're not just going to give them to anybody, though. They've got to have the people with some basic skills, even if they are just the interpersonal skills. The we'll just put it right out out there, the ability to be trained and to play well with others and work well with others.
NEXT> Scott Pope: And so that was a lot of it. So that's been a lot of where the workforce development is starting to go right now on my end is the train

[9357-164] Bernie Falter |  | 2017-09-28
PREV> Bernie Falter: story about a small Minnesota manufacturer that was able to replace 3 or 4 workers on their assembly line, small assembly line with an economical robot, and the story included the perspective of the person. The one person who was left after her coworkers were.
TEXT> Considered redundant because the machine took over. Therefore, the the work that the four of them had previously been doing. But it's not just physical labor. There's a thing coming out on artificial intelligence where even mind work is beginning to be taken over by  a essentially a very sophisticated computer programs. So,  it's like everybody's under threat. If you read and believe about these, this theme, The Future of Work,  I monitor the media industry as well. And even writing jobs, people are developing programs to write journalism, as in fact, I read that the Associated Press no longer has people assembling the stock tables, because that's an easily automated task, and it's all done electronically. And so some number of jobs were eliminated,  some number of jobs that even required judgment, human judgment no longer needed because the machine can make those judgments. So, you know, I mean, I am a professional pessimist and I'm a happy pessimist, but hey, we're all under threat, not just our kids. Thank you.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Councilor Pope.

[9357-168] Scott Pope | City Councilor; tech center instructor (addressed as 'Councilor Pope'  | 2017-09-28
PREV> Scott Pope: has been the case in several situations. I've seen. There was one department in Welland that actually had to increase by 20 people because of robotics, and their skill levels had to go more than just feeding the machine, but knowing how to troubleshoot go.
TEXT> And they went from one shift to three shifts. So it's not so much that the technology is eating the jobs, it's that the skill level has to be at a much higher level. And the person who I was talking to, I've known the person for several years back from when the person was pretty much button pusher and now has to program the robots, says to these students, I have there, you have got to be able to continually increase your skill levels to be valuable. And so that that's my answer to that. So I know there's the pessimistic side and everybody loves to write the pessimistic side. But I'm going to tell you now, what I see out there is that the skill levels have to increase the days of the person doing one little job for the rest of their life and saying, I'm happy and I'm going to make 30 bucks an hour. This is union work. That's not happening. So that's where we have to go on education. Thank you.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Jason Bender, Ward one again. Mr. Pope made some good points in training new people to do these skilled jobs. Is is great. But looking at our town in the

[9357-173] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - speaks of shaking a graduat | 2017-09-28
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Two things. Number one, the system of educational teaching. Has been a manufacturing type of teaching because it hasn't changed in many, many years. So the system has to be changed in order for us to teach our children of the unseen jobs of the future. We have to also change the way we teach our children to. And that means going back to the system and looking at the system itself. And secondly. There there's an opportunity, especially here in this space, to have even free training for people to have skill sets that they need that live in our community. If if there were opportunities for people to come here at night, even or during the day that are in our community that don't have full skill sets, that could get full skill sets here. How I entered Bath Iron Works, which is a shipbuilding company. And I worked on the G. Early DG Arleigh Burke 51, which is an awesome thing because it was a fusion of aluminum and steel. So it was a whole new concept. And where did I get that job? I came to a tech center at night, paid for through the state because I chose to take the job over state aid.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: In order to take the job, I had to learn how to do ten knocking tin smithing and welding. So I had to do an eight week course at night.

[9357-174] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - speaks of shaking a graduat | 2017-09-28
PREV> Michelle Pierce: it was a fusion of aluminum and steel. So it was a whole new concept. And where did I get that job? I came to a tech center at night, paid for through the state because I chose to take the job over state aid.
TEXT> In order to take the job, I had to learn how to do ten knocking tin smithing and welding. So I had to do an eight week course at night. Childcare provided and paid for, my mileage paid for,  and a small stipend to go to this class rather than to stay home and collect state aid. And that gave me a whole new set of skills to put in my toolbox that I hadn't had before. So that was. 30 years ago. There's an opportunity to say that I could look at this at we're still 30 years there instead of we. We have the opportunity right now to take the people in our own community and not worry about bringing in other people as much as we can, take our own own community and rebuild it to a system that will work, all for ones working with the children, you know, bettering  that side of it.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Why can't we look at bettering the adult side of it, giving opportunity like that so that people can come in and take courses at night and be able to

[9357-188] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-09-28
PREV> Unidentified: Rebecca.
TEXT> I don't want to be the buzzkill, but I just want to bring it back to technology and students really quickly. We talked about technology taking over jobs and such, but I just keep thinking about how technology is are also robbing our kids of the soft skills needed to actually  want to get a job, or be able to interact with peers and colleagues in the job. And I just think we all need to be really cognizant of that fact that we need to, spend just as much attention educating kids on the soft skills that they need for these jobs, probably more so probably in the last 20 years that have been in education, it's soft skills have decreased significantly, you know, and people and teachers are spending more time  working on even teaching those skills, you know, manners, basic skills. So I just think we all need to remember that and make sure we're good.
NEXT> Scott Pope: Answer one thing on that you are in that we need to teach more soft skills. And so Mister Morton and I have really been working with some programs, as

[9357-189] Scott Pope | City Councilor; tech center instructor (addressed as 'Councilor Pope'  | 2017-09-28
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: been in education, it's soft skills have decreased significantly, you know, and people and teachers are spending more time working on even teaching those skills, you know, manners, basic skills. So I just think we all need to remember that and make sure we're good.
TEXT> Answer one thing on that you are in that we need to teach more soft skills. And so Mister Morton  and I have really been working with some programs, as well as the Wieland Wieland program that I teach, the introduction to manufacturing,  although the students and I'm going to hit that one first, although the students are in a manufacturing environment, the goal of that, if these students come away totally disliking, disliking manufacturing is a potential career. That's all right. What they're doing, though, is they're working with adults and try to think of a good way to put this,  up to this point in these young people's lives, probably the adults that they've met have been parents, aunts, uncles, maybe a couple neighbors and teachers, maybe a couple people here and there. Now they're meeting real live adults out of captivity, and they are actually seeing what these adults, you know, out in the real world and out in the job. And so they are seeing what the real world expectations are, the skills, how to say yes, thank you. Gratitude for a job,  happiness about a job, what work habits have to be. And these people I go to we'll and I've talked most almost all these people. But the attitude is passed on by the supervisors. I like to tell them they're working with about a anywhere from 110 to 150 of my friends.
NEXT> Scott Pope: And that's not a lie. These people, there's some people that I really do select, and they ask me every time I walk into the plant, they say, one of

[9357-190] Scott Pope | City Councilor; tech center instructor (addressed as 'Councilor Pope'  | 2017-09-28
PREV> Scott Pope: have to be. And these people I go to we'll and I've talked most almost all these people. But the attitude is passed on by the supervisors. I like to tell them they're working with about a anywhere from 110 to 150 of my friends.
TEXT> And that's not a lie. These people, there's some people that I really do select, and they ask me every time I walk into the plant, they say, one of the kids coming, one of the kids coming, and it's not the job they're teaching, it's the life skills. So if that's the takeaway there, what we're doing up here at the tech center, Mr. Morton and I have been working with the 21st Century skills, habits of learning,  skills for success. We're really trying to work on that. We've added that to our assessments.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I love that.

[9357-196] Nicholas | City Councilor (uncertain - cued 'Nick' by Benware [403]; roll 'Nichol | 2017-09-28
PREV> Jason Benware: How does.
TEXT> That message get to all students?  Not just. It sounds like they have to hit a certain program to to get the soft skills or the training. And I ask that because it's it's a long standing joke, but it's really not a joke that a class that needs to be taught at the high school level is showing up on time for four consecutive days. But that that's a major problem  out there keeping or getting a job or wanting to even, even even in the business. I'm in a restaurant food service industry right now. Everyone in town is chasing the same person, and I'm seeing the same people getting the same jobs, that you're giving them a second chance because the pool is not there. So then I start talking to people that have larger businesses than mine, and it's it's the same thing. It's the attitude. It's not just the skill set, but I don't know how you intercept those students on a big picture.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Well, that's where Corey Oh program, I think is a really good stepping stone to start that whole process. She has to continue through the grade school. So.

[9357-211] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: hear from each other what the steps have been, that we've taken since that incident occurred and where we want to go. As a result of that. So we'll briefly go over that and then we'll start lining up what the next meeting look like.
TEXT> It has been, an unprecedented  time. And what I, what I've done is, I was I was thinking about what's been going on in the past few weeks. On August 29th, I received a phone call from a newspaper correspondent wanting to know,  had I. Can you can you give me a comment about the child who was hung  up during the school day and I had not heard anything about a child being being hurt that way. The corresponding thought that the school year had already started, and I explained it didn't start until the 5th of September, but in the 5th of September, above the fold. One of my major papers was a large article about what had happened. And then we got into the school year, and then on September 11th, I remember talking to Corey de Clare and a few other colleagues, and they were looking on their on their phone and they, they were saying, this issue is going viral. It just exploded because of the nature of it and because of their country's reaction to it. So on September 11th that that evening I put out a phone message because I knew what how I felt. But I realized the community doesn't know how the school district feels about this. And then on September 12th. And so I made that phone message.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But in the phone message concluded by saying, I need your help and support to do this, because quite frankly, I didn't have the answer other than we had to

[9357-216] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Unidentified: I've been.
TEXT> With New Hampshire Public Radio on Monday and yesterday at a New Hampshire  training, I sat beside another gentleman. They've approached me. They have a background in these experiences. They're not looking to sell anything. They're looking to share.  I mean, tomorrow with a resident of Claremont who spent several years in New York in a in a community in New York where they had gone through this experience. And so what I'm interested in doing is to learn more, to acquire different resources. But in contacts. But I believe the students, the staff, the parents, the residents need to be a part of this and that. We need to provide opportunities to listen and learn from them. The school board. Next week, I'm going to ask the school board to review some of how we do business, what our policies are, and also what are the expectations of the school board as far as the conduct, because I will share with you,  though, this August 28th with about children being hurtful to another child. I will share with you that how we interact is not just about children, it's also about adults. And if we're honest and we don't, I'm not pointing fingers. I'm not this group or that group. My pointing at parent. I'm not putting it. Teachers. I'm not putting in a superintendent. I'm not going to look for a victim or someone to blame.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But I think we need to take a step back and make a commitment to engage. I think this eventually is going to lead into some major curriculum change, some

[9357-222] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Ben', 'Jason Bender'; later a sch | 2017-09-28
PREV> Patrick Adrian: creative event for the for the where the community has to literally be involved. And for anyone who is aware that I think that's important for us to be participating in. Yeah, actually, if you can, I was the one you can talk about that.
TEXT> So Jason, Ben reward one. So essentially on October 5th from 2 to 3, when the kids from the middle school and the elementary, not the elementary schools, but the middle school and high school are getting let out from school. They're going to be walking home  on Broad Street and on Pleasant Street. There's going to be people such as myself and others who decide to do it. Holding up signs suggest, you know,  don't bully signs or signs that say things like,  will you pledge not to bully people in school? And basically approaching the kids while they're walking home from school, engaging them and then getting them to sign something or their sign saying that they pledge not to bully. So essentially, just trying to catch these kids on their way home from school when it's your best chance of catching a bunch of kids and hopefully passing the message on from community members, not just from people in the school district  telling them that this is something that that's important, and hoping that they can, help out with that. So it's from 2 to 3 on the 5th of October.  If you're interested in doing that. Erica Ray,  you can contact her via social media. But you can also go into the Cumberland Farms on a few days during the week and catcher there as well, because she works there.  I think it's a good thing I'm going to do it.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And if doing it, several other people. Yeah. Nick.

[9385-81] Diane Edwards | Director, Early Childhood Program, Claremont School District | 2017-10-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Oh that would be lovely.
TEXT> Thank you. So right now we have three. Classrooms and. They're all. Early childhood meaning we don't have more than 50% children of children in each class on an IEP.  Our program mission, vision and identity has been  defined. It's in that trifold. We also have lovely aprons with pockets so that if you came over to the school, you would see the teachers with their with their aprons on with the baby cardinals. So we have we are now branded  and we are working on program wide behavioral expectations. And once those are identified, we're going to be meeting about that on Friday. That means when you come into this school, you will see in each of the classrooms the expected behavior, not just for the children, but also for the adults. And it ties back to the social emotional development that's essential for a child to have in order to learn. We are using research based curriculum.  Research based practices are being followed.  Yesterday was the the last classroom had a teapot assessment done. An outside assessor came in, sat in a classroom two hours documenting  bless you. How much time is spent talking to the children? They're looking for  20 minutes of action, 20 minutes of sitting  there looking for that mixture out the day.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: They're looking at five positive, what they call deposits in terms of verbal interplay with children to every one withdrawal, which is a redirection. So it's very specific. And they

[9385-82] Diane Edwards | Director, Early Childhood Program, Claremont School District | 2017-10-18
PREV> Diane Edwards: teapot assessment done. An outside assessor came in, sat in a classroom two hours documenting bless you. How much time is spent talking to the children? They're looking for 20 minutes of action, 20 minutes of sitting there looking for that mixture out the day.
TEXT> They're looking at five positive,  what they call deposits in terms of verbal interplay with children to every one withdrawal, which is a redirection. So it's very specific. And they take data for the two hours, and then they'll give us an aggregate report so that we can look, see how we did. And then at the end of the year, the reviewers will come back and do another two two hour session in each of the classrooms. The program services are embedded in the classrooms for all children.  So we have wonderful therapists. We have speech and language  being provided in the classroom, not just for the kids who are identified as needing services, but for all of the children. And so those children who might have needed services if they didn't come to our program are getting services without first having to go through the IEP process. And we're doing that through RTI, which I'll talk a little bit more about.  Our program hours have been expanded and so have the days. Last year, the three year olds came two days a week. This year they come three days a week. The four years came three days a week. This year they come four days a week. By expanding the day by a little bit, we're able to offer the children breakfast and lunch in the morning and lunch in the afternoon.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: Last year they were able to get snacks. So now we're meeting the most basic need for food. And, that definitely has a positive impact. The other thing is transportation

[9385-83] Diane Edwards | Director, Early Childhood Program, Claremont School District | 2017-10-18
PREV> Diane Edwards: three days a week. The four years came three days a week. This year they come four days a week. By expanding the day by a little bit, we're able to offer the children breakfast and lunch in the morning and lunch in the afternoon.
TEXT> Last year they were able to get snacks. So now we're meeting the most basic need for food. And,  that definitely has a positive impact. The other thing is transportation is now offered for all. Before that was a barrier. People couldn't get their children to the school, and it was only offered for children who were on IEPs. Now it's offered for all. So that barrier has been removed. We have ongoing staff training.  A lot of it is focused on the pyramid model, and we are also doing community outreach via the 1000 books before kindergarten. So any Friday that we're in session, if you go over to the library, you'll have one of our wonderful teachers and staff  reading to the children for anyone who would like to be at the library. And then we do an activity following that.  RTI stands for Response to Intervention. And basically it gives all children what they need. We've been in school five weeks for six weeks. It's all about routine,  and some kids have never been to school before. 56% of our children have never been in preschool before. They're still trying to figure it out.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: What is it like to be with other children who want the same thing, who are vying for attention at the same time? So first six weeks, we're figuring out

[9385-84] Diane Edwards | Director, Early Childhood Program, Claremont School District | 2017-10-18
PREV> Diane Edwards: gives all children what they need. We've been in school five weeks for six weeks. It's all about routine, and some kids have never been to school before. 56% of our children have never been in preschool before. They're still trying to figure it out.
TEXT> What is it like to be with other children who want the same thing, who are vying for attention at the same time?  So first six weeks, we're figuring out the routines, who these children are, what they need.  After six weeks, we have some documentation. Who needs what, and how do we best give it to them? We have OT, we have  speech and language, and we also have everybody trained in social emotional development, in addition to  all of our respective  certified teachers who are working on other curriculum aspects. So with RTI second six weeks of school, we start really focusing on the specific behaviors in deciding whether or not these behaviors are due to lack of exposure or something else. If they're due to something else, then we'll start looking at whether or not there should be an assessment. With RTI, you can see that middle circle we're already seeing for a children on IEPs, the threes who've come back  for the second year and are now for  Christina, one of our incredible teachers who's sitting there.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: She has a child who's ready to service out, who's going to be going off of that IEP because they're a speech has gotten to the level where they no

[9385-85] Diane Edwards | Director, Early Childhood Program, Claremont School District | 2017-10-18
PREV> Diane Edwards: or not there should be an assessment. With RTI, you can see that middle circle we're already seeing for a children on IEPs, the threes who've come back for the second year and are now for Christina, one of our incredible teachers who's sitting there.
TEXT> She  has a child who's ready to service out, who's going to be going off of that IEP because they're a speech has gotten to the level where they no longer need services, which is incredible. And so if we didn't have that child as a three year old, and if they didn't have have a program in for and instead just went on to kindergarten, they would immediately need to be put on an IEP. That other overlap for the arty,  TD stands for typically developing with our typically developing children receiving  services in the classroom as part of the regular classroom. Again, with two years exposure, some of those kiddos might have needed an IEP at the end of the experience, but because they're getting them as part of the regular classroom, we're hoping to reduce the need for having those kids move over  and be on IEPs for services because they're already getting them. So again, RTI will will continue watching where they progress and if they need the services  in terms of an IEP, then they'll certainly get that. But we're thinking that quite a few of them are not going to need it because they're getting services automatically.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: So research is, plentiful when it comes to social emotional behavior. Used to be that we would tell students in teacher preparation programs, if a child knows their letters of

[9385-86] Diane Edwards | Director, Early Childhood Program, Claremont School District | 2017-10-18
PREV> Diane Edwards: again, RTI will will continue watching where they progress and if they need the services in terms of an IEP, then they'll certainly get that. But we're thinking that quite a few of them are not going to need it because they're getting services automatically.
TEXT> So research is,  plentiful when it comes to social emotional behavior. Used to be  that we would tell students in teacher preparation programs, if a child knows their letters of the alphabet, if a child knows initial sounds, then that's our best indicator of how they're going to do in kindergarten. That is no longer the case. What trumps that is how well a child can self-regulate, how well a child can listen and respond. And in looking at a  study of 9000 elementary students, they found that the kids who had entered kindergarten as not ready  were 80% more likely to be retained by fourth grade, 80% more likely to require special ed services, and seven times more likely to be suspended and expelled at least once. And if you think about it, if the interactions around negative,  they're setting up a disposition for a child to not like school. If a child doesn't like school, jazz is our  they're not going to be motivated to go. And so with the social emotional program that we have in place, the goal is to have positive interactions and to allow those kids to be successful.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: So here are the research recommendations. They look pretty basic. But you have to remember some of our kids are nonverbal, so it's hard to have always positive experiences. When

[9385-87] Diane Edwards | Director, Early Childhood Program, Claremont School District | 2017-10-18
PREV> Diane Edwards: school. If a child doesn't like school, jazz is our they're not going to be motivated to go. And so with the social emotional program that we have in place, the goal is to have positive interactions and to allow those kids to be successful.
TEXT> So here are the research recommendations. They look pretty basic. But you have to remember some of our kids are nonverbal, so it's hard to have always positive experiences.  When you have a child who's a runner or a child who's a biter, and they're not able to communicate with you using their words. We see children who at first  came to us with absolutely no regulation. Now five weeks in their able to communicate using pictures. So it's pretty incredible the amount of gains children make even after a very short while. And so while this looks simple,  if we don't do this when the child is three and four and they go into kindergarten, not being able to do that, these are the kids that Chris ends up dealing with later on. And so by by addressing these, we're going to reduce the number of at risk kids. Now sometimes children's body and brain  are not in saint sensory rooms. Allow kids to  pull it together a little bit. They have calming visuals, soothing music. Mats  are incredible. Page not only is an awesome teacher, but she's also a yoga instructor. And so, we're planning on doing more exercises with the kids for mindfulness and self-regulation, including yoga.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: In the sensory room. The kids would be together as a group. So again, they're with typically developing peers. So they still continue with that social emotional curriculum. And again,

[9385-88] Diane Edwards | Director, Early Childhood Program, Claremont School District | 2017-10-18
PREV> Diane Edwards: pull it together a little bit. They have calming visuals, soothing music. Mats are incredible. Page not only is an awesome teacher, but she's also a yoga instructor. And so, we're planning on doing more exercises with the kids for mindfulness and self-regulation, including yoga.
TEXT> In the sensory room. The kids would be together as a group. So again, they're with typically developing peers. So they still continue with that social emotional curriculum. And again, they get to diffuse excessive energy so that they can increase the focus in the classroom. So here's a picture of a space a typical space. And then there's a picture of the sensory room. And the grant that we were fortunate enough to get funded is going to pay for those materials that you see in the sensory room. And so what a what a wonderful way to start the day. And so what we're going to do is not only are the children going to be going in the center room, but the adults who work with the kids will be going there too. And so if ever you feel like.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: I was going.

[9385-96] Diane Edwards | Director, Early Childhood Program, Claremont School District | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Yes.
TEXT> I  am thrilled to be able to have done that. And again, this is something that  percolated up. All of the staff were very excited about this. And just to be able to literally bounce off the floor, that's a pretty cool thing for kids. But there are days when we get all use that. And so for us to start the day with the kids doing yoga and mindfulness and bringing our energy level to the point where we can focus and the kids can focus, it's a great thing. So we're pretty excited about that.
NEXT> Unidentified: I wish we had a yogurt.

[9385-103] Diane Edwards | Director, Early Childhood Program, Claremont School District | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Baby?
TEXT> Baby cakes. So, This week will be our third week at the library, and the librarians are very happy.  We'll be doing a monthly newsletter. We generate most of it. And then I get with the librarians, and then they give us their part. And so again, it's it's open to the community. And we hope that, you know, you will all spread the word as well. And going forward. So we have the,  the multi-tiered system that's a pyramid model for interacting with the children, for reducing those undesirable behaviors, for making the interactions positive so kids don't hit the wall. Come fourth grade  coaching Christina is going to have her very own coach for the pyramid practice that was part of the state model, which is going to be beneficial for all of us because the information will be shared. We have ongoing implementation of the action plan so that we can continue to access these restricted environments and typically developing pairs. The Artie that we're going to be doing is going to focus pretty much on social emotional development and language development. The two go hand in hand,  and we're going to be working a lot on expanding vocabulary. So if somebody is frustrated or,  feeling anxious that they have the words to be able to describe that, data collection that started from day one.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: But we'll also going forward, be able to track how the children do who graduate from our early childhood program when they enter kindergarten. And we'll be doing the pre

[9385-104] Diane Edwards | Director, Early Childhood Program, Claremont School District | 2017-10-18
PREV> Diane Edwards: language development. The two go hand in hand, and we're going to be working a lot on expanding vocabulary. So if somebody is frustrated or, feeling anxious that they have the words to be able to describe that, data collection that started from day one.
TEXT> But we'll also going forward, be able to track how the children do who graduate from our early childhood program when they enter kindergarten. And we'll be doing the pre and the post screenings.  And the next thing on our list as a group is playground enhancement. So if you know of any grants for playground enhancement, it would be lovely to have a playground that's Ada accessible. And so that's that's another thing that, that I'll be working on and just,  ongoing demonstration of best practices. And in the future, it would be nice to tie that to college credit opportunities for high school kids.  And that's what I used to do, called professor. And so,  to offer that in a lab school environment would be a natural fit. And so that's where we'd like this to go. Does anybody have any questions for me?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: No questions. I just want to say I am a big advocate for RTI. Love it. And the when you were speaking about self-regulation and all that stuff, I, I'm

[9385-115] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: This is really exciting.
TEXT> To me. This is this is great because, you know, we've discussed, you know, making the move to full day kindergarten.  And it's just a discussion we've had for a while just about kids that that aren't ready for kindergarten when they get there. And it's it's just great to hear the development  that that this, this classroom has been able to to get with some of these kids. And  I know it's going to make make it more comfortable for, you know, all the kids in the classroom when they move up at kindergarten. But it's also going to make it more comfortable for the teachers and just just everything about it. So it's this sounds awesome. Great work.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9385-163] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: rather to establish a plan, provide input from a cross-section of the community, and then leading toward how we're going to inform instruction. So this is going to evolve over time. And I it's it's I'm very pleased how it's taking shape and the interest.
TEXT> And  I really look forward to the responses. Next week when we take and disaggregate the information and learn more about our  our what our students, what our faculty, what parents and what the residents are, what their views are as we go forward. So this will be a community direction, not just a small group of people who think this is the right thing to do.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Just to add on to that, I have been in touch with a group. They contacted me after, some of the the news of the incident back in August broke.

[9385-170] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: surprised if bullying or how we treat each other, the behavior and conduct between adults, between students and vice versa, isn't isn't part of where we're going. But I don't want to say this is what we should do without gathering views of the community.
TEXT> And I think that's a huge view that I want to kind of bring into that, because the bullying seems to be and it's and again, it could go back to adults not being polite to adults or certain members of the community, you know, making very poignant, you know, phrases like that everyone on the school board is dysfunctional. I find that very inappropriate for a person that, you know, is supposed to be a statue of the community to speak like that. I think that's bullying. Personally, I think it's bullying to to talk like that about those things. So I, I've and I've seen bullying and I've been in bullying situations and I've heard about parents, but the kids mostly the middle school and then a little bit of the high school,  a lot of concerns. So I, I guess I just really want to have someone focus on that.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I.

[9385-185] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School senior | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Lexi.
TEXT> I just wanted to let you know, Doctor  Goodwin, that I brought it up to the student voice group at students. For those of you that  don't know the student voice group, we there's ten of us now, which is better than two, which we started out with. We pretty much get together, every Thursday during flex time and talk about like, the issues and concerns at Stevens High School. And we also talk about like, the good stuff that's going on.  So I brought that up to them and I'm going to bring it up again next week when we have our other meeting.  About being involved with the student, part of your.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Wonderful, wonderful.

[9385-343] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: The section.
TEXT> I think maybe Doctor  Goodwin wasn't necessarily probably trying to feel like he can't do it. It's it's  it's a lot for him to do that. However, when  you have to understand too, that for us all, make the right decision for the community, for the children, for the staff, for you, we have to see things and understand them better. And this is probably one of the first times in a long time that we've picked apart and really looked at what we can do. We might come back and not be able to do it. $1 million savings. We might come, you might come to us and say, okay, we found this or this. Any kind of savings, any kind of rework or any kind of multi training that can happen or cross training, all of those things are at  obviously things that could be worked into, looked at, yada, yada. It we need the numbers right.
NEXT> Unidentified: That Rebecca.

[9385-350] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Are they working.
TEXT> We have to look at that. We have to I would start about ten years ago and work forward and say, okay, what's new? What's grant funded?  And again, the easy stuff again, like we did last year, look at the actuals and the reels and the budgets cuts, their staffing patterns, which we've got a little bit of here. It's not exactly what I was hoping for, but, and then, 90 Paris in the district, you know, do they all  have are they all associated with the kids IEP. Every one of those parents, are they in everybody's IEP? That type of thing. We monitor monitoring contracted services.  Huge hemorrhage there. Sometimes if we're not track of that  consolidating programs. And people have already said that  Consolidating do we have programs that should be cost neutral and or not. And again, the essential question is,  are these must haves  are nice to haves. Now we saw presentation tonight. And from my point of view that's a must have because that we're looking at an investment of pennies and we're reaping dollars. And I think that that's the type of data we need to have to make these decisions. But as far as these other positions, I don't know if it's a good investment or not. Would it be helpful.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: At the next board meeting that we come prepared to be able to give you a job description, not in writing, but specifically what certain positions are? We all know

[9385-376] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: All due.
TEXT> Respect, I couldn't stress what you agree with what she just said. And we talked a lot about this. I think that was the point of this exercise, is we're saying this is our responsibility, your responsibility. Everybody at that table is to educate the kids. Our job is to make that hard financial decision in the crisis that we are, it's not yours. So I think when all is said and done, whatever it is, if if it goes to that, it won't be on you guys. It will be on us. That's why we get paid the big bucks of absolutely nothing to sit up here. But I think that's a very important thing. And I said this in the beginning of the process. I respect everything you're going to ask for, and I know you can justify everything you're asking for. That has nothing to do with this. It's the reality of, you know, to Frank's point, we're in that crisis. And, you know.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's an opinion, by the way.

[9385-449] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Directives last week and we discussed it again this week.
TEXT> We we have a we have a facility that we're going to be getting a report on from the architect within next week. And we'd like to talk to you about that. To better serve our student population, the goal initially going back almost four years, was to decrease the number of children who were sent by bus to another location to receive an education, but rather educate them. Here it would be saving money. It would also be earning money for the district by other districts, would send their children to our facility. In fact, when that was on the front page of the Eagle Times three years ago, we heard from a local district, you know, if this happens, would you consider so? But the whole key is we'd rather have our children be educated in Claremont versus get in the van or a bus and travel X number of miles away.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Well, right. I understood all that. I guess, like there's modular classrooms, that have been always been an option for every other place in the world for children to go

[9385-539] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: But it's supposed to send a 70% of the costs over three and a half times. Right. They do is they, they, they figured at the 70% and then they reduce it to 66% of the 70% is what they actually.
TEXT> Quick math problem that if we have a kid and they're out and it's costing us a quarter of a million a year for the student to be hit a mountain or whatever they are, what would what do we get back in cat aid on that?
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: We would get about 8000.

[9385-731] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Chris: It's not what it says.
TEXT> It says an informal evaluation of the student's placement.
NEXT> Chris: I don't think that's necessary.

[9385-746] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Ten days. That's a manifestation.
TEXT> I will change that to  instead of an informal evaluation, I will change it to a reentry meeting for the student.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Recommend it, you could say, or.

[9385-757] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Which are similar.
TEXT> Following the suspension of a specialized student and formal evaluation of the student's placement will take place. IEP meeting the the IEP will then be evaluated to determine if it needs to be changed or modified  in response to the behavior of the led to the suspension. So that one's about changing an IEP. The next one is about placement.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And it sounds like after one time of being suspended, they can have a meeting.

[9385-772] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: informally, the staff will look at it and say, okay, the student was suspended today. Do we need to change anything or should they just come back and. And everything's okay as it is. That's that's the way I read. That is what I mean.
TEXT> It's pretty intrusive. I would feel comfortable if you say a special ed team may be following a suspension, an informal evaluation of the student's placement may take place.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: May be warranted, maybe warranted, depending with people.

[9385-781] Chris | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (inferred from superintendent's r | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: feel to that. If they read that oh my gosh, if I get suspended once, you know, I'm gonna have to go through so much to get back. I mean, I understand, you know, but you do make a lot of mistakes and and sometimes.
TEXT> And a lot of times you get to the middle and high school, you want to you want to include the kids in that reentry meeting and and may not necessarily want to do that with the younger kiddos.
NEXT> Unidentified: How good.

[9385-852] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: That's.
TEXT> What I for example, I asked my question from a text sample how much is it for our kid versus. But I know we changed. I couldn't remember it was. Yeah. That's Mike it's a great question.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thanks.

[9386-281] Michael O'Neill | Director of Business and Finance, SAU 6 | 2017-10-12
PREV> Michael O'Neill: do in 1819 is a similar thing, that we use $50,000 of fund balance, and we talk about the fund balance of numbers in a minute. I'm increasing the indirect costs up to $90,000. As you can see, we budgeted 23 for 82 and 1516.
TEXT> We actually had 625 this year. In 1617 we had 95,000 for 20. If you follow it over so clearly, I think we're going to be above $100,000 next year. And that just goes to the work that Cary and her people in Diana doing to try to get more grants, which pay us indirect costs. Indirect costs do not decrease the amount that gets spent on the students. It's it's basically a built in cost of the grant that the source is able to recapture. We're basically getting more for two reasons. The rates up and we're spending more grant money and we're doing the grant management more effectively. You know, that's why if you look at us to Frank's point, if you're paying  $50,000 for a contracted service provider and they give you $100,000 back in indirect cost, plus they're giving you the value of using all that grant money, it certainly is worth the investment. So that comes to the 1955423 proposed 1819 budget. So so my revenues equal my expenditures. And you'll see that the change is the 9367 that you saw on the budget number. Increase questions on that. Again I talked to fast I know I get that. We talked about see already in  D is something that I know we've talked about before.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: That's the last page. And I know that we had increases in software and increases in equipment for, technology. And this is the detail of, you know, who needs a

[9386-570] Chris Irish | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont) | 2017-10-12
PREV> Michael O'Neill: And some people have less desktops and laptops like myself and a couple other people do.
TEXT> I just I mean, just for the sake of it, if you knocked it down to $700 for the PCs and 1200 for laptops, you could save 2400 right there under the budgeted money.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So just for clarification purposes, in this budget, there is $14,700 built in for new replacement equipment, which is desktops and laptops, correct, for (234) 567-8999 people. But did somebody

[9406-12] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School (first | 2017-11-01
PREV> Lexi: meet with parents and guardians next week to discuss the progress their students are making. Please call the dessert office if you would like to and have not already scheduled your conference with your child's teacher. Write a lot of stuff from Stevens this week.
TEXT> Open house was Thursday, October 19th during the school day. This event went very well and many parents enjoyed sitting in on classes with their student. This week, a spirit week again at Stevens. So far we've had America Day, which was Monday, costume contest today, which was Tuesday. What the heck are you wearing? Day, which is today, which is like mismatched day. Tomorrow is Taurus Day and Friday is tie dye day. Since next week we only have school on Wednesday and Thursday we are extending Spirit Week by two more days. Wednesday is twin day and Thursday is class holiday. Here is an update on the Student Voice Group. With the help of Miss Berry and Miss Downing, we have connected with CC TV's Keith Droll so we can begin to make discussing the good things happening at Stevens. We have come up with many ideas for these announcements so far. Last Thursday we went up to the Tech center and Mr. Joel taught us some things about how everything behind the scenes at CCTV works. We had our first student of the month and she is Alexis Varela. Alexis has been a strong leader in her mathematics class as well as a group leader.
NEXT> Lexi: She is the lead and the group of four students in our algebra one honors class. She excels at pushing through hard material and working with her peers to accomplish

[9406-13] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School (first | 2017-11-01
PREV> Lexi: and Mr. Joel taught us some things about how everything behind the scenes at CCTV works. We had our first student of the month and she is Alexis Varela. Alexis has been a strong leader in her mathematics class as well as a group leader.
TEXT> She is the lead and the group of four students in our algebra one honors class. She excels at pushing through hard material and working with her peers to accomplish incredible work. Our student of the month receives a $50 check and a certificate of Achievement from Mexico Savings Bank, one of our great community partners. The Life Skills Program, is planning a new school, store and dog treat business. These businesses will help give students opportunities to use functional math, language, social skills and will give them some great work experience. Freshman and sophomore students are signing up for the Washington, D.C. trip, and there are several fundraisers underway to help pay for the trip. We will be hosting several concession nights at basketball games. Thank you to the classes who donated their nights to the cause. And there will be a craft fair in the Stevens High School gym on Saturday, December 16th. We are also partnering up with the sophomore class to sell fudge for the holidays during this event. Anyone interested in participating, please contact Holly carrier for a $25 rental space in the gym or cafeteria. The hope is to be able to raise enough funds to lower everyone's price and to give out several partial and full scholarships.
NEXT> Lexi: The School Counseling department is implementing to all grades as part of its Career and College initiative, and gear up the Honors Lab physics class, taught by Mr. John Usher

[9406-24] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Superintendent report. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. I  must say, with the Lexus comments  about the recent football game and  at Barnes Park and the and the musical  performers at the instrumental performers from the two high schools dressed up, it was really very festive. It was terrific. And the spirit that both  schools had and how they supported each other was wonderful. It really speaks about the communities and about our student, our student musicians. In your packet, there is a report from me and with in light of  today's or tonight's lengthy agenda, I'll be brief.  We do need two  school board members to volunteer, perhaps once a week to come to the Dow building and  sign  about these vouchers. Need school board signature,  and  it's a requirement of our auditors. It's it's two. Right.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Two members.

[9406-64] Jason Benware | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy (self-ID; ASR 'J | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Question number nine, what is your vision for the Claremont School District five years from now?
TEXT> That is a very good question. I think that,  in a perfect world. When the federal government gave mandates for for the schools, they would fund them adequately and they would allow them to fund those mandates completely. So all of our kids would get a balanced education.  Unfortunately, as it sits right now, we are in  a state where the federal government doesn't do that and the state continues to dial back their funding of education. So we look at this, this continual  increase in the cost to our town and the decrease in in what we're getting from outside of our town. And I'd like to see five years from now, we have a quality education given to our children, but also have it balanced out so that the people who live in this town can survive as well. So I think that as a school board member, I think it's the the school board's sort of it's there should be their objective to give our kids the best education possible without undue burden upon everybody who who pays taxes. So I guess five years from now, what I'd like to see is some creative decision making that will make our district and our school good for our children, but also a little bit more fiscally responsible.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9406-73] Jason Benware | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy (self-ID; ASR 'J | 2017-11-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: But what I'd like to know is what do you feel are the most pressing problems facing the Claremont School District at this time? In addition to fiscal, which you've already stated?
TEXT> Well, I, I believe we have some great, mostly great teachers in this district, but I think that mandates that are in place right now make it very challenging for them to do their jobs completely and fully. And what I mean is, and I guess I'll just come out and say it, No Child Left Behind makes it very difficult for them to dole out the the type of attention to each kid that we would really like to have seen. Now, I'm not sure. Or I'm hoping at some point that these mandates change a bit so that we can get a fair and sort of balanced education for every child. But as of right now, I see that being a big issue in the district. I think that these are things that over time can can change and we can get more balanced education for all. But but right now, it seems as though that a lot of these mandates sort of handcuff a lot of our teachers. And I think because of our our trouble with funding and the amount of money that that we have as a town, it's awful hard to have classes where you have 23 kids and one teacher and not everybody is at the same level. So, so it's really hard for all of all of the children to necessarily get what they need without being left behind. For instance.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Yeah.

[9406-76] Jason Benware | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy (self-ID; ASR 'J | 2017-11-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: What do you see as a school board members role and responsibility in the effective administration of the schools?
TEXT> So I think. I think that it's the district's job to decide what it is and everything it is that they would like to have for their schools and the children. I believe that it's a school board members job to try and do their best to balance the best possible education for our children without making it so people can't afford to live here. So I think that's what the school board's job is. It's a balancing act, and I think you have to be creative in order to do that. But I'm pretty creative, so that's my answer.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9406-93] Jason Benware | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy (self-ID; ASR 'J | 2017-11-01
PREV> Jason Benware: lot of people are just going to seek out activity and involvement. But if you if you kind of bring people in with something that's appealing to them to begin with, then you can probably tap into that and get them to be more involved.
TEXT> I the just putting out handouts and the kids lunchboxes or sending it in a in their backpacks or putting it out on a website. I don't think that's what does it. I think you really need to actually get them so you can get into their faces and get them involved.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9406-114] George | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy; former Claremon | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thanks for coming. What is your vision for the Claremont School District five years from now?
TEXT> Five years from now, I think I'd like to see, a district that's fiscally, more frugal. Something that will keep the goals of the students ahead of everything else, but recognize the impact of the budget on the taxpayer. That isn't easy. As I said, I worked on budgets here for at least eight years and 12 up there. But there are a number of things that that can be done. I prided myself in saying when I went to  Goma, I was going to look at it like a business, and believe me, there's a tremendous amount of difference between running it as a school district and running it as a business. So I would like to see the educational level continue to climb, because I put four kids through this school. And there's nothing wrong with the Claremont schools, despite what people might want you to believe. My kids went to schools like Dartmouth and Clark and BC and came right out of here and you know it.  And I've subbed at the high school here. We've got good kids. So there you go. I'd like to keep the impact on the taxes as low as I can. Recognizing, though, that you do have to spend money to keep the system up with.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: If you could create a job description for a school board member, what would be your three most important things to include in that description?

[9406-126] George | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy; former Claremon | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Okay. No worries. What would you. As a school board member, to strengthen the parental involvement in the school district.
TEXT> I'm touched on the subject I love. I think the big thing that's lacking is parental involvement. I think parents have, in a lot of cases, have abdicated their role as parents and dumped it onto the school system. And that's not the responsibility of a teacher, nor is it the responsibility of a staff member. Those children should be. They should come to school prepared. They should come to school knowing what's right and what's wrong. Basically, they should know what's an appropriate behavior. That isn't, again, it isn't the role of an educator to teach that. It's the role of an educator to enforce that. But parents need to be the front line. They need to they need to do whatever has to be done to get that kid ready, and then to support whatever the teacher might send home with the kid and say, we need this. Don't question it. Do it. It's that simple. The professionals are the people that are at the desk in the classroom.  And you've got to understand as a parent that they're there. They're not there to get rich, that's for sure. So I mean, if they're there, there, there because they have an interest, they care for the student and you've got to defer to them at times.
NEXT> George: But again, it isn't up to the teacher to teach them proper, proper manners, how to behave, what's acceptable. That's your role as a parent. So as far as getting

[9406-153] Alex Herzog | Candidate for appointment, appointed and sworn in as Claremont School  | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: G.
TEXT> How much money do we put in behind that question? Because it comes down to that, right about looking at what the finances are and what we can support through, you know, taxpayer funded initiatives or through grants we can get. I'd love to see a higher graduation rate from our high school. I'd like to see not everybody needs to go to college. But you know what? There's some thing to be learned from college. Even if you go to sugar River tech and get some great skills, you want to work on your own business. You may need to have some skills on how to pay your taxes. And that's the kind of things that you know. Are we doing that for our students? Are we preparing them to leave high school to be able to go to work? Let's see, I'd like to see improvements all the way around. I think that's where I am supported in education, because it's all about our future and the kids are our future.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: It's my turn. I'm wondering if these questions are going to sound familiar to you. Maybe. My question is, if you could create a job description for a school board

[9406-177] Alex Herzog | Candidate for appointment, appointed and sworn in as Claremont School  | 2017-11-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Do you have anything you'd like to close with?
TEXT> No. Thank you for the opportunity. If given a second chance at this, I'd really love to be a part of it again. And, you know, throughout life, we experience adversity. Our students experience at teachers and staff. The key thing to adversity is to get up and try again and keep going. Right. You can't let life knock us down. We got to keep moving ahead.  So  I'm going to bring a lot of life learning experiences, a lot of good leadership experience. And I look forward to hearing what you have.
NEXT> Unidentified: To say. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Alex.

[9406-179] Caitlin Kerr | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy (self-ID) | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: To say. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Alex.
TEXT> So my name is Caitlin Kerr. My family and I moved here to Claremont over the summer. And. We've really fallen in love with this community. And I saw an opportunity to, you know, be part of something that could change the future and really support, you know, our education system. And so I thought I would, you know, run for this position. I don't have a whole lot of experience with board positions, so forgive me if I seem very nervous. So we came from Massachusetts, and while I was there, I worked as a private music teacher alongside the the school system. They had an after school program that made music lessons and other art lessons and things like that, accessible and more affordable for the students in the area. And so I thought that, you know, being a person who's worked alongside might be a good insight also. I guess that's it. I'm sorry.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Well, is it all right if we ask some questions?

[9406-185] Caitlin Kerr | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy (self-ID) | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Is, what is your vision for the Claremont School District five years from now?
TEXT> I would like to see, a district that has maintained a well-rounded experience for the students. I mean, what I see when I look around is I see a community that cares a lot about the sports. I see a community that cares a lot about, the arts side. I see a community that, you know, has this technical school here. So why don't feel that we pigeon pull the students. And I would like to see us maintain that so that more students have more opportunity to experience the things that they're interested in, because your chances of success are far higher when you care.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9406-192] Caitlin Kerr | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy (self-ID) | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: You. What would you do as a school board member to strengthen the parental involvement in the Claremont School District?
TEXT> I think I would try to lead by example  the more  involved when I was a manager in a job position in the past, you know, I could ask people to be involved and to put in time as much as I wanted, but if I was not doing it, they weren't doing it either. So I think that I would try to lead a strong example in being that parent who was there and is involved, and also that school board member who was there and involved, even if it's not, you know, related to my child particular event.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

[9406-283] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> It's material taken right from our student handbook. So parents are asked to read that with their students and sign off that they've done that. So yeah.
NEXT> Paul Gerald: So the brain the adolescent brain is going through a lot of changes as well. And I was at a conference last year and this is really simplifying it. But

[9406-290] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> You know, and there is research out there that says that by the time students reach a grade, their moral character is set. It's it's there. So that's why you see up on the slide that for us, we have an opportunity, a challenge, and we have a responsibility to our kids to to help them through their middle school years. And so now we'll review some bullying statistics. Do you want to talk about this one?
NEXT> Unidentified: Sure.

[9406-292] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Sure.
TEXT> So there's a lot of a lot of data out there. A lot of different sites. It's interesting when you start looking at the national data, much of it is about data that was gotten from surveys like the Youth Risk Behavior Survey, from very minimal questions that relate to  kind of the the accepted national definition of, of bullying, which we'll talk about in a few minutes, but it's less it's not as disaggregated to actual bullying versus reported bullying. So that's why you see that blue bar on this on this graph. Percent of students bullied I believe in 2010 it was as high as 28% on those national measures. And now  most national measures put it at around 2,021% of students report. So it's somewhere between 1 in 4 and 1 in 5. Students report being bullied in the state of New Hampshire. The data that is collected. And this is, this is collected in a way that's consistent across the state,  is that 3% of students report bullying or three, 3%. Yeah, 3% of students report bullying and 2% of the students are actual bullying. So, and then we can switch it to the next one. Yeah. And we're going to talk. Okay. Go ahead.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I just wanted to clarify on this. So so reporting these are kids saying I've been bullied with the blue purple. That's like the a survey that the kid where

[9406-322] Unidentified | Unidentified - backchannel fragments from several voices, mostly the b | 2017-11-01
PREV> Lexi: Because sometimes it's hard. I've obviously been there in middle school, and it's kind of hard to distinguish between the two like. But. So I was wondering if you were going to explain.
TEXT> That to the kids too.
NEXT> Paul Gerald: So I'm glad you're here. So keep jumping ahead because I think your experiences will be really helpful.

[9406-343] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Audra Buckland: or their property, cause emotional distress. And when I, I actually have this on a chalkboard in my office, and when kids come in and they're talking to me about a conflict, we walk through a lot of this and we talk, what is distress?
TEXT> And we define that. It's extreme anxiety, extreme fear, extreme emotional pain. That's distress. I mean, we need to be we need to be clear. Distress isn't. I'm sad today because we all get sad sometimes. And we want to validate that for kids, it's not about, you know, somebody made me feel bad because people, we are people, we are human, and we're going to do that, but it's somebody causing you so much to stress that you're afraid to come to school on a regular basis interferes with a pupils educational opportunities that can look like, gosh, in middle school, on any given day, my friends said they didn't like my outfit. Now I'm crying and I missed some of my class. That's not necessarily bullying, though. That's, you know, that's a conflict between two students and it's pretty darn resolvable. But really interfered like, again, not coming to school. Can't concentrate in school on a regular basis. You're not progressing as a student because of what's happening in school. Hostile educational environment. We talk about the the definition of hostile where you feel completely unwelcome, in that environment and substantially disrupting the orderly operation of school. So where it's really detracting from the education of lots of students.
NEXT> Paul Gerald: And.

[9406-365] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: What?
TEXT> Audrey is describing really takes time. So, you know, the days of of Delhi discipline, you know, which is take a number down to the assistant principal. Get get that consequence. You know, there's the line outside the door.  We can't do that. It's not it's not right for kids. So what Audrey is talking about takes an enormous amount of time. The handout that we have see handout one has a number one on it. This is taken right from  our, parent student handbook. And so that's something that you can take a look a look at. But it helps to determine conflict is the behavior of conflict. Is it rude behavior. Mean behavior. Is it bullying.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: How many parents do you think actually read the student handbook?

[9406-377] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: a handbook, you know, with, with terminology in terms you may not even understand it to begin with. And then, you know, you might want to fib a little bit and sign it anyway and say, you say you did. You know what I mean?
TEXT> Well, and, you know, they get their handbook the the first day of school, when you get the stack of paperwork that has to be filled out. So all of this as we've been researching and preparing for this and actually before, before we even found out we were presenting, we had been, really focusing on other things we can do, with our kids and with our parents as well. So we'll get to that in a little.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And I just want to say, I'm not blaming anybody about giving the student handbook out in my brain. I'm just wondering if there's ways we could brainstorm other ways

[9406-404] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Absolutely. Yep, yep.
TEXT> We so that's where the safety planning comes in. If there if students, feel or if we feel there's a level of concern that either classes need to be changed or, students need to be escorted, you know, have a buddy going from classes or lead class a little bit early or something like that. I mean, there's any number of things that we we do and they're all very specific to different situations.
NEXT> Unidentified: So the.

[9406-428] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Paul Gerald: and I think that's something that maybe will be agenda items for future administrative team meetings. As we you know, we're working on that vertical alignment of the curriculum. I think this is another another area that maybe we can do a better job with.
TEXT> I might say, if I may, Brian, I read every bullying report that is written and I sign it and we keep a log. The bullying at the elementary, the bullying at the middle, the bullying at the high school. They're different because the children are different. However, there is a common protocol and I can tell you that the protocol that's appropriate for a third grader may not be appropriate for a seventh grader, but there is a  continuity as far as fairness, firmness and consistency. Age appropriate. But there isn't one size that's going to fit from grade one to grade 12.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I think what I was trying to ask is, is more on the subject of, again, it's not saying that. Does does this apply to a third grader? Obviously it

[9406-430] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: that six years prior. So I guess my question is, you know, goes back to it's not I'm not asking you if it's implemented there, but are we all working together to sit down together and say, okay, you know, this isn't this is that.
TEXT> I, I know when our students transition in, into sixth grade, there's a lot of this teaching that happens within the first few weeks of school with the sixth grade team and and reviewing that. And I would say some of the like the flowchart is new for us. We're using the flow chart. But bringing kids in, having kids report and responding to their needs has not changed. That and following the district policy has not changed. That has been consistent.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: And that's what this is. It's just a way of mapping the district policy. So I you know, I think the protocol I'm sure is very similar. At each you

[9406-439] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: So we'll just go over this. Fairly quickly.
TEXT> We have advisory groups that meet each morning. We have an approved curriculum called Overcoming Obstacles. And there are certain lessons within that,  that curriculum that address bullying. This year we had a soft. Start fiscal year, and that meant we spent a significant amount of time in our advisory groups and within our grade levels, really developing relationships and building friendships. We also our health, family and consumer science and computer classes all have as part of their curriculum. Bullying components. So we feel like we're we're getting at them in a variety of ways. And also RTI or  model, you know, we have our green team, our yellow team. And again, that could be a completely different presentation as well. But what we're doing with our kids who are struggling and our kids who are struggling the most, and different measures that we put into place for those kids. A variety of plans you heard to talk about different plans and safety plans for kids. During our wind block, what I need, students are getting the academic support that they need as well as that social support. So it's also a time when our school counselors are are working with kids and giving them, helping them develop the social skills that they need. And again, all of our that we have that promote pro-social, engagement for kids. Okay. Now we have a case study that.
NEXT> Unidentified: We.

[9406-455] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: If that's something that can be.
TEXT> Put up on the on the student page, you could share on their student web pages or the logins. Like perhaps  throw a bulletin out, you know, just a friendly reminder.
NEXT> Paul Gerald: So, the next slide is next steps. And we, Corey was kind enough to help us out. And we're planning a parent forum coming up in early December. We have

[9406-476] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: May I ask questions? Yeah. Did it.
TEXT> Just that a curiosity do the  having the new, food service  help kind of give the kids a little bit of a calming more and to see more excited. And, you know, the middle school was one of the ones.
NEXT> Unidentified: That.

[9406-479] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Paul Gerald: more kids eating breakfast. So that's really good. Whenever we can feed them because they're always hungry, that's always a good thing. So one last thing that we're asking of you. We also did this with the teachers. Do you want to do this kind?
TEXT> Sure. So I just passed around an exit ticket. And if you can share, one thing that validated your your thinking about tonight's presentation, one thing that you learned through tonight's presentation, one thing that you still have questions about, and one thing that you can commit to doing differently. And I would just like to make a plug for it. I shared this at the faculty meeting to this is it feels funny to me to present about this, because this is a topic that needs to be just an ongoing communication. This is not something we can say. Here's our solution. We fixed it. Feel good about what we're doing because it's an always changing, problem, I think. And the more we understand about kids, their development, their brains, all those things, the more we understand our own community, the partnerships with other community agencies that become available through all of the work that that is done in Claremont on behalf of families. I think all of we just need to keep talking everybody about it and absolutely. And how we really, help the, the whole community deal with it together. And, and it's, I mean, we can spend a lot of time saying, you fix it or, you know, parents are too busy to fix it, or parents are responsible to fix it on their own and send kids like, just, you know, perfectly ready for school.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: But the reality is we're all in this together. And if we don't keep it a conversation, versus a presentation, it's not going to go away.

[9406-483] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: the policy because I think the policy is pretty solid, although we could always look at it a little bit more. My concern is with the loopholes, like, kids are super stinking smart, and they find those loopholes and they catch on to our jargon.
TEXT> And there's lots of different scenarios I could give you on what I mean by loopholes. You guys are probably thinking the same thing as me right now to. So I won't go into it for the sake of time. But that's what I really want to know. How can we tighten up those loopholes? How can we work on the things that aren't working? Because this is great, but there are still a lot of things that need to be worked on and looked at a little bit more closely. And I'm a huge fan of. Nostrils flaring. I'm so nervous. I'm a huge fan of resilience and grit, so I'm so happy to hear you. Speaking of that, because I think that, that's an area that we  all need to work on with our kids and with ourselves. So, it makes me happy to hear that you have a guidance counselor background. Because I think that that can contribute a great deal to this whole topic right here.
NEXT> Paul Gerald: Absolutely.

[9406-534] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: of us wearing glasses. Imagine if it was glasses. You can't wear glasses, so if you have trouble seeing you don't fit in, kid, well, those things are gone. Thank God. Let's talk about speed though. Let's talk about what I've heard from this board.
TEXT> That's fetid, becoming more and more expensive. This is the history of Sped cost. The budget from 2013 to 2018. This represents when Krispy Zo arrived 2016, and since that time, the budget in special education has been going down. Not because the number of children have been decreasing, but because of different strategies. The administration, different strategies and special education have been implementing  to reduce the cost but not reducing meeting the needs of children. Let's talk about out of district placement in the past five years. 2.5 million in 2013. Here's what Chris Pisa arrives. Here we are today. Efforts are being made to reduce our district placement. Efforts are being made to reduce costs and not compromising children's education or their well-being. So I hope you're starting to see why we're struggling, because we've been squeezing and squeezing and squeezing as increases have occurred, as lack of revenue has decreased or decreased, revenue has decreased. The budget should be doing this. The budget has not been doing that because we've been squeezing and squeezing and restructuring, as indicated by the budget day directive showing you now 1.2 million below this year. How? And I'm very interested in listening. And the administrative team is to very interested in learning from you who you feel.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Each school board member in attendance September 30th believe there may be potential savings. We want to understand where you're coming from. This isn't a challenge. We're not going to

[9406-542] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: students. And I think I hope you've seen tonight that what would happen by this by school board, by the community, by administration over the past six years, we're not out of control. We're pretty lean. But look what we're doing in that lean mode.
TEXT> You as a board, you cannot solve the real estate tax problem because the real estate tax does this, but our budget does this. And at the end of the day, and this, by the way, comes from the New Hampshire School Board Association, the primary focus of every school board member must be student achievement. So. We want to work with you. We want to be partners with you. We want to have dialog with you. But I can tell you, members of the board, we're struggling with how we're going to do this. Unless student achievement is not the priority. So my my intent tonight was to treat you the way I would like to be.
NEXT> Unidentified: Treated.

[9406-548] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: That.
TEXT> We're here. First I want to start off by saying that I like how you said we're not the enemy. And I would hope that, we would be moving towards a school board and say six staff coming together and working together. And I would hope that teachers aren't hearing things like with the school board requesting $1.2 million cuts, you guys should be all afraid of your losing your jobs or, we're not going to have any supplies for our kids or, the school board doesn't know how to reach a consensus. Like, I would hope that conversations on your side  would be, also stressing how much time we put in in how committed we are  to this job, even if we don't all agree. I just want to get that out there because because I, I get.
NEXT> Unidentified: Feedback.

[9406-553] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: You meaning the board specifically?
TEXT> There's I think there's a lot of one of your words in here was perception. I think there's a lot of perception out there that the school board, doesn't have the best interest of the students at heart. And I'm shaking because, again, I'm nervous. I can't help it. But, I have kids in this district, so I take it very seriously what goes on up here. And I'm not going to do something that's going to impact my own children's future.  I just want to get that out there.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9406-558] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So maintain.
TEXT> To to my target would be to maintain a minimal increase in the budget, but to continue down the path of where we've been heading in the past 4 or 5 years. It started in 2011. We've been addressing the issues that were identified and discussed publicly in 2011 and making adjustments accordingly down the way. So I don't want what I don't. So I'm not telling you anything other than we have a plan. It's a strategic plan involved a community. We have a we have an investment in our faculty. We are constantly monitoring the growth of our students and adjusting accordingly with that. So my plan is to continue on that path and bring our district to a point where the community starts to benefit, because the school district has been a stone in the.
NEXT> Unidentified: Shoe.

[9406-588] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Shell and then.
TEXT> So the answer your to go back to that question, when I first came on the board over several different conversations that I had had with other people in community members, also, I set the stage to ask and started asking the questions of, why do we not have a facility here? What are we doing to look for a facility here? Why are the costs so expensive? And they came back with a presentation, and their presentation was that they have a lot of out of town expense, and that's where a lot of their expenses are. And so that brought us to the next question of  what are we trying to do to fix that? And where are we at. And so I kind of always kept with them and on them and about them about the special education. So that's where that's coming from, in my opinion, on my perspective of doing this. It could be a huge taxpayer savings, I believe, for the community and for the school system, if we can rein in getting the children back in to Claremont and not and I do understand there's certain circumstances where it's just not possible. However, I also believe that if if the things that are continuing now that are in progress, come to fruition, that, you know, we're going to see the partnership, I believe, with Brattleboro.
NEXT> Unidentified: Just looking for space.

[9406-599] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: see, because then you can say, yeah, we're out of control or no, we're right along the lines with everybody else, and that doesn't make it right. I think we can examine it still, but it would help us guide us a little bit more.
TEXT> So just jumping in. On what? Piggyback on what Alex just said. What would have been helpful, for example, would the staffing would have been because ten years ago that was that data went back to 2008. Were our student enrollments there? And that was a piece of data that was missing from that, because I have a feeling in 2008, we had a lot more students than we do now. And so I think that's important when you're looking at how many teachers, well, how many kids were there. But that's I think that's what Alex is, right. Drilling down to that type of stuff that helps us really understand. So we're not seeing pieces of data. We're seeing complete data.
NEXT> Chris: So I can give you a. Piece of data that, on the out of district because, national average for school districts is between 3 and 4% of the total population,

[9406-650] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Michelle, do you have anything.?
TEXT> I just I,  I'm glad that we're at this point. I'm glad that we're able to look at the things and, and do what we're supposed to do as stewards. You know, we're this and you know, I, I think it's important that  that I want to make sure people understand that my priority is children. And yes, money and budgets and cuts are scary,  you know, and it will affect the children eventually. And that's what we we don't want to do. You know, and that's where, you know, obviously,  I want to stress that the reason why I do this is, is for the for the children to give them a protection, you know, make sure we're we're doing it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Thank you. I'm very interested, you know, to follow up with your comment, Alex, I'm very interested in doing some research on one data point, what districts, demographically or geographically

[9406-707] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Got it. 40 pages.
TEXT> Get ready school board and you'll get results. But you have to work in progress. You know, what what the professional learning university that started last week.  That's not a coat of paint. And we're done. That's going to be a multi meeting process. But where we are today I mean one classic example because it's after 10:00. Five years ago the elementary, middle and high school were disconnected.  Right. And now if we look on your look on the website, the curriculum website of the essay six, you'll see documentation and guidelines and pathways that never existed. So there's an example of one of the results. But when you say results you're talking about student learning outcomes.  I mean.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Our eighth graders still playing football in ninth grade with five F's.

[9431-52] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2017-11-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So those are all of our systems.
TEXT> That run our student information systems across both districts.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: It runs,

[9431-88] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2017-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: That breakdown is on D. This is that break.
TEXT> So power School is our student information system.  And Shannon is our  power school. And database.
NEXT> Unidentified: I, I don't want to cut you off. I understand that, but I'm looking at software and I see asset management firewalls. We'll do the school messenger. Power school.

[9431-146] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-11-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: This is an average daily membership. This is.
TEXT> This is the percentage in the in the in the column that says average daily membership and attendance 1617. The second column of that is the average daily membership. Correct. Then we translate that into a percentage. And 93.72% of the students attend Claremont and 6.28% of the students attend unity. Right. But then we take the 14.24 from the valuation to 6.28, and you average it out. Because remember, as it says, I've taught, each one is worth 50% of the of the of the allocation. So it's not just based on one, it's based on two. Unity ends up paying 10.26% of the overall budget.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah. Well one last question for me, the and I'm going to ask this on behalf of Chris because he's not here. Last time we met, he was thinking that

[9431-147] Unidentified | Unidentified - short fragments | 2017-11-02
PREV> Michael O'Neill: 6.28, and you average it out. Because remember, as it says, I've taught, each one is worth 50% of the of the of the allocation. So it's not just based on one, it's based on two. Unity ends up paying 10.26% of the overall budget.
TEXT> Yeah. Well one last question for me, the and I'm going to ask this on behalf of Chris because he's not here. Last time we met, he was thinking that the price on that many computers, laptops and desktops seemed high in this day and age  thousand 114 hundred for computers each. And so I'm asking on behalf.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: Of my professional opinion.

[9431-152] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2017-11-02
PREV> Josh Malloy: year old machine, which would cost us $150 per machine, potentially to upgrade that to run a modern operating system, where initially we purchased that device for $900. Now we're buying an upgrade. We might have to buy another upgrade to keep that stuff running.
TEXT> We're also dealing with we don't have an SS agreement with Microsoft, so we have if you have a seven year old machine you've actually gone through, we're throwing out stuff that's XP and Vista. So if you have an XP machine and a Vista machine, I can't really take that software and the office software that's running on it, stick it on to a new machine  and have people still use that same software that was on the old stuff. So XP, I don't know if you've heard  it's been end of life for a while.  There's a lot of security issues with it. You don't want to plug it into a network. Vista's kind of in the same spot. Windows 7. We have a lot of Windows 7 devices. I'm feeling a lot better about Windows 7 still, but that is getting close to end of life. At this point. We should be looking at Windows 10 and deploying Windows 10 and deploying what's going to be a modern office suite,  because if I again, if I expect that device to last anywhere from 5 to 10 years,  and I'm not putting the latest office suite on it or the latest operating system within three years, you're going to have teachers that are having difficulty using that technology and being effective and productive, and what they're trying to do with our kids.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: So when I look at this number, I try to take away from the initial purchase cost, there's also how much it costs you for electricity for that device. So

[9431-165] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity) (uncertain - never named on this recording;  | 2017-11-02
PREV> Josh Malloy: here's an E series where we decided to cut back on how much we were spending. And it's not it's not the oldest laptop we have, but she's having issues because we chose to decrease how much we wanted to spend initially on the device.
TEXT> So I want to answer your question, and I  just want to put out to the board. So I heard you ask a question that was, would would the board like you to spend more money staying local, or would we like you to put it out to bid?  I would say in I think it's in the best interest of the taxpayers, although my heart wants to say we would all love to have things done as locally as possible, I think we need to put it out to a competitive bid and get the best price.
NEXT> Unidentified: And include local people in.

[9431-178] Robert McDevitt | SAU 6 Board member (Unity) | 2017-11-02
PREV> Josh Malloy: Well, we have a.
TEXT> Broad using it. There's some that are not I'm sure there are. No technical. Are you planning to get with the children?
NEXT> Sara Lowe: So. But just to interrupt, just because this is right now about the six not individual classrooms and teachers and their computers, I just want to bring us that's a

[9431-266] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-11-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah. Who thinks fantastic. She's awesome. Yeah.
TEXT> She's on the student services administration. Next one is business office. Again, salaries up slightly  4472. Health insurance is down due to a change in census. And then the Medicare taxes are up slightly if you flip over to the next page. Social security, taxes and retirement are also up for the wage increase. And then business office software 1550. And then the details of that are on the attachment D.
NEXT> Unidentified: I know you've talked about the contracted services there and I know that's shifted from someplace else, right?

[9442-19] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Ben where'); cluster also absorbs | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: Second on the favor. Aye. Now, student representatives. No citizens comments. Oh, sorry that we switch. It's been a long night already. Citizens comments and would like to please state your name and your ward once you get up there. Appreciate it.
TEXT> Sorry to interrupt that, but that's okay. My name is Jason Ben where I live in Ward one. I have three C's tonight.  I know you guys have a lot to do tonight, so I'm going to try to make this as quick as possible. And I have places to go as well. So three kids the first one is a commendation. The second one is a comment and the third is a concern. So I'm going to start out with the commendation. I just wanted to say that,  I'm really happy to see that they're trying this new program at the Bluff School, where they're feeding all of the kids breakfast in the morning.  I think that by doing that, they're going to get a whole bunch of kids who probably needed to be fed breakfast but weren't getting there in time. And frankly, I think that any kid who's got a full belly  is going to learn better, and you're likely to have a lot less, unhappy people in the morning to deal with. So I like to recognize when I see things that I think are good that are happening in the district. So whoever came up with this, I say thank you.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I hope that perhaps this will be something that can be implemented in all the elementary schools at some point in time. So that's that my comment. So last week

[9442-26] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Ben where'); cluster also absorbs | 2017-11-15
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: there have been changes and you as a dedicated resident and the community needs to know what those changes are, because it's tough to measure the impact of budget reductions by looking from the outside in. But. But I'm taking up your time. Excuse me.
TEXT> Absolutely. So that's going to lead me into the next conversation then. And this is my concern. So I'm not sure if the school board knows this, but I'm sure the district knows this quite well. At the Bluff School right now. My my children go there and my son's in kindergarten as it sits right now. There were two classes  of kindergarten, 23 per class, am I correct? 23 per class. 23. That's a lot. Now, at the Maple Avenue School, there's four classes of roughly 15 at the desired. I think there's three classes of roughly 14. Correct. So I guess the question that we'd like to ask, and I'd certainly like to ask is somebody who lives in the Bluff District is why why are there 46 kids split between two classes at the bluff? And there's let's see. So I if I do 15 times for that's 60 kids split between four classes and  1442 between three classes. Why is that?  It seems to me being somebody who's a taxpayer and a parent who pays the same tax rate as everybody else in this state or in this town. Sorry, that we should probably be afforded the same  educational opportunities for our children in the district as every other school.
NEXT> Jason Benware: It seems to me that 23 kids per class is hard to manage. Now we have two very good teachers there. Miss Flanagan and Mrs. Mortal are very good and

[9442-28] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Ben where'); cluster also absorbs | 2017-11-15
PREV> Jason Benware: I'm not suggesting that you should, you should take away teachers from either of those schools. What I am suggesting is that it should be fair throughout the board because, you know, Mr. Goodwin, you've said and I I'm going to paraphrase, but you've said.
TEXT> A child's education should not be dictated by their zip code. Well, I don't necessarily think a child's education in this town should be dictated by the ward they live in either. And frankly, the way it looks right now, since there are about what, 68% of the kids at the bluff who qualify for free or reduced lunches, whereby for far the poorest ward in the town. Well, what it looks like to me is where, like the red headed stepchild our ward is, looks like it's being treated unfairly. Now that looks like it to me. And it looks like to a lot of other people. Maybe that is not indeed the intention, but it certainly looks that way. I would also, if possible, I'm like to make a formal request for information on all of the class sizes, the amount of teachers, and the amount of paras  supplied to the three elementary schools, because I'd like to compare them. And secondly, I would I think it would be very good for you to go and measure the classrooms at the bluff, because I just had a curiosity. Does anybody here know what the  adequate size or the the minimum size requirement for a kindergarten classroom is  for the state of New Hampshire.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: State fire marshal regulations?

[9442-36] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-15
PREV> Jason Benware: are my concerns, and I'm voicing them because other people have them too. But I'm the only one willing to stand up here and say them. And I want my children to get the same education that every other kindergartner has in this town. Okay.
TEXT> If I may, Chris, I thank you for your comments. I wish you would ask me. I have a concern about the Bluff Elementary School kindergarten class. What are you going to do about it? Make statements like we're not doing anything about it. In truth, sir, we've been studying it for three weeks. We don't need your reaction based on class sizes. It's much more than the class sizes that the needs of the children.  And so if you go from class of class and measure the number of children, you're looking at a very shallow. You also have to look at the needs of the children based on that, without going into specifics, because I don't know what a class or a school without any details. We were going to be presenting to the school board and nonpublic a resolution to this matter.  It's not acceptable with what's been going on and what we are aware of working with Dale, working with coral, Claire,  working with our curriculum specialists,  we have been addressing it. We haven't made it public,  but the school board, with their approval, we're going to correct it. But we don't measure the effectiveness of instruction based on the number of children in the classroom. In fact, resources shown, number of children in the classroom doesn't necessarily merit or equal the quality of the education.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I'd like to see those studies.

[9442-58] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Ben where'); cluster also absorbs | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: We're going to have a ton of budget meetings, I'm sure. So by all means, keep track of where we're meeting. And if you drop me an email, I'll let you know when the meetings are. Please come.
TEXT> And,  Mr. Goodwin, if this sounded aggressive, it certainly wasn't meant to be. But I got to tell you, I'm somewhat passionate about the education of my children.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That's a good thing.

[9442-63] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: Anybody want to follow that?
TEXT> Good evening, Michelle Pierce, Ward one. I'm up here tonight because I want to say a few things.  Something came my way a couple of weeks ago, and it was really disturbing, actually. And I wanted to address it here because I want to reach out to all of the children of the Claremont community and let them know that no matter what,  if there are no trees up this year for Christmas for them, that we will certainly be trying to do something different. So to all the teachers and the principals, try to please have them still make their ornaments and we will work on where they're going to go.  Parks and Recreation called me two weeks ago and told me that I could have nothing to do with Christmas. I couldn't touch it, breathe it, smell it, work with it, or anything else. That decision was made by a conversation because apparently I've p owed a few people, which doesn't surprise me because I do that sometimes, and I've also,  disrupted a few things in my time, which doesn't surprise me. I do that once in a while. However, if you know me, my passion was for the children and for Christmas, so I'd like to say that I am deeply, deeply sorry that I will not be able to help the kids this year.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And I also want to apologize to the public, because if it wasn't for the opportunities over the past four years and earning number three in the state last year

[9442-99] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: The feedback.
TEXT> I just have one thing. Last year, we the board heard, someone questioning the validity of yellows and if they're really going to get off the ground. I think that our, our students here,  representing our student body, certainly indicate that it's not a fad. It's something of the future, especially if we're talking about competencies and meeting the needs of all students. So congratulations to you.
NEXT> Christine Downing: And I'll give you guys a little bit of background with the data that we have. You know, I just want to release these guys and let them go.

[9442-110] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you guys. Thank you for.
TEXT> For staying. Appreciate that so much. So really quick. Just want to go. And I thought I think you saw some of this evidence in the student presentations here tonight. Yellow is are about these four things. It's about high academic  expectations. You have a lot of this in your packet that you received in advance. The second bullets key and yellow is driven purely from that student interest in need right. Most of the times when my ellos are conceived from an early, it's the kids coming directly to me and saying, hey Miss Downing, I'm really interested in X, how can I get credit for this? How does this work. Right. And so it's really driven from their need school community partnership huge. That's a direct connection to our district strategic action plan. You saw I have in my PowerPoint also Richard Ackerman and Gina Burke and  Sarah Hastings couldn't be here tonight from Red River. So they actually sent a statement. So I've included that so you can see it as well. They are a great partner for us as well as others that we're reaching out to. And in the key, you heard it here tonight.
NEXT> Christine Downing: Authentic learning, right? It's connected to their needs and it has meaning. You have this chart in your packet. I'm not going to go through it. There are some misconceptions

[9442-111] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Christine Downing: from Red River. So they actually sent a statement. So I've included that so you can see it as well. They are a great partner for us as well as others that we're reaching out to. And in the key, you heard it here tonight.
TEXT> Authentic learning, right? It's connected to their needs and it has meaning. You have this chart in your packet. I'm not going to go through it. There are some misconceptions around yellows. And I just want to point these out. Just like online learning a lot of times isn't for every  individual learner, be it an adult learner or a student learner. Same thing for LOLOR might not work for some kids, and that's the point of them. They're there. Another pathway for learning.  They tend to get on that people want to lump them with. Oh well l o is just a credit recovery or a competency recovery. Not really guys. LS really get from the heart and the pit and the gut of the student. And they drive the learning. So they need to have that commitment, that motivation and that work ethic to really make it happen. You have some other comparisons. I'm not going to go through them. I think the other point that I'll make tonight  is that it is part of the law, is part of Ed 306.27  and it is it is required right there.
NEXT> Christine Downing: Districts shall develop local policies that develop LS. It was enacted in about 2008 and nine when they adjusted the the minimum school approval standards. And so it's something that

[9442-112] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Christine Downing: make it happen. You have some other comparisons. I'm not going to go through them. I think the other point that I'll make tonight is that it is part of the law, is part of Ed 306.27 and it is it is required right there.
TEXT> Districts shall develop local policies that develop LS.  It was enacted in about 2008 and nine when they adjusted the the minimum school approval standards. And so it's something that by law, we need to be offering kids that if we don't have that opportunity existing in our program of studies, we've got to figure out how do we make that opportunity happen. Okay. At Stevens, it's a three step process. The kids come to me, they fill out an application. The application is really just getting at. Why do you want to do this?  What's your interest? You have the  form in your packet. The second one is really where we flush out the details of the L and how it's going to be implemented, and it really becomes our guiding curriculum document to make sure that all parties are doing what they need to do to keep the L moving along. And then in step three,  we have our evaluation and reporting process. There are four major components to an  L. They are research reflection product presentation. And so those those are the heart of every L. So kids are doing research on their own. They're reflecting on their learning how they share that the goal is to produce something, to demonstrate something as a result of their learning, and to share that with others, to present it.
NEXT> Christine Downing: Okay. This is from the Red River one. Just give you a second to read through it. This is from Richard, Gina and Sarah. They wrote it to me because

[9442-113] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Christine Downing: heart of every L. So kids are doing research on their own. They're reflecting on their learning how they share that the goal is to produce something, to demonstrate something as a result of their learning, and to share that with others, to present it.
TEXT> Okay. This is from the Red River one.  Just give you a second to read through it. This is from Richard, Gina and Sarah. They wrote it to me because they said, well, we can't be there, but we want the board to know that this was a great experience for all of us. So I'll just give you a second. Just to give you a little background on the student that talking about. Emma Emma Peterson was a senior last year.  And part of her as a result of her l experience when I first came to  meet with me and she said, I'm really interested in technology. I love web design. And she worked with Lori Stammer, who we know recently  moved on to another position, but,  and had a great connection with her. And we paired her up with Red River and she got a lot of experience in digital marketing, etc. but more so she got a lot of experience about what it meant to work in a business, write a professional business. And when she originally came to me, I said, so what are you going to do after graduation? She says, oh, I don't know.
NEXT> Christine Downing: You know, I'll probably end up at, you know, Fuji or Wheeling or somebody working the line like my family. And I said, well, what do you really want to

[9442-116] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Christine Downing: about 52 kids on my caseload right now that I oversee. So there's no stipend issue. Okay. So that gives you a sense grade level distribution. This is the best part. A lot of people also have the misconception that LOS are only for upperclassmen.
TEXT> As you can see, we have a pretty good representation there across the grade levels. So that's one of the first big misconceptions. I deal with kids, because the freshmen will come to me and say, I can't do any at all. I'm not old enough. No, l don't it's not based on grade level at all.  Number of credits awarded. We typically go half credit to 1 to 1 point. We go by half credit increments. And you can see the breakdown here.  About 46% are one full credit. And about 36.5% are a half credit. And then we have some others that are mixing in their.  This year we actually have a three credit one going  and that is a pretty rigorous one. It deals with one of our students in our choral and band program who's doing honors, band and honors. Honors course. At the same time,  through our yellow experience,  we also give the option that these yellow credits can go for the elective category, which they're at a minimum, you have to have six elective credits, or it can go for one of the core content area credits.
NEXT> Christine Downing: And you can see a breakdown here. Right now, about half are in the elective credit, about another quarter. We had a big wave in the ICT kids wanting to

[9442-117] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Christine Downing: same time, through our yellow experience, we also give the option that these yellow credits can go for the elective category, which they're at a minimum, you have to have six elective credits, or it can go for one of the core content area credits.
TEXT> And you can see a breakdown here. Right now, about half are in the elective credit,  about another quarter.  We had a big wave in the ICT kids wanting to do technology,  digital marketing, website design, things like Alyssa and Jesse talked about that. Definitely populate those. And then there's some other breakdowns there. The tracks we track, so are these kids on and this this really gets at that misconception that ellos are only for our struggling students, because when you look at them.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: All, 70.

[9442-121] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the Chair's absence | 2017-11-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Sure.
TEXT> Thank you. And having the kids come was that's always the best way to show off stuff. So I have a question because I, I admittedly didn't have a real good understanding of yellows other than the band, because every time I see lo. I think I'm old. Yeah.  But but I can't help but asking the question. I'm just trying to figure out how to ask it properly. But walk me through. You have the first student that talked about the culinary piece of it, an L, versus having her attend the culinary program at the tech center. What's what's the thought process that goes into that to give them the right.
NEXT> Christine Downing: Sure. So so in that particular case, we'll use Clara as the example. She came to me and she said she had actually already taken some of our cuisine courses

[9442-150] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Lexi: school schedules. Like I can do dance on Monday nights at 6:00 pm. Jenkins and I can get my credit for gym class that way. So that way it's kind of already doing what I'm doing, but I'm also doing school at the same time.
TEXT> And what I do is I tried to connect the content area teacher to say, hey, do you want to be a partner on this?   If they choose not to, which is fine, because the law only requires that you have a certified educator oversee it. So I hold a couple endorsements, so that covers us. That's why I can cover about a third of our kids. But what I will still do is I'll go to that content area teacher saying, okay, here's the plan. Talk to me what's missing, what needs to happen from your perspective as somebody that teaches something similar to this? So we make sure the rigor is matching what's happening in the course.  I don't want to put Mary on the spot, but both her grandchildren  participated in ellos last year. Sam and  and they were going to try to be here, but they've been doing some traveling and stuff.  But I didn't know, Mary, if you wanted to talk about what Sam did with the with the sugaring shack and Evan with his team or. Yeah.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Come on up.

[9442-162] Mary | Parent of ELO students Samantha and Evan, Ward 3 (first name from Down | 2017-11-15
PREV> Christine Downing: Nice. Phenomenal. What she built.
TEXT> And she used the, help of some of the students in the, the building courses here at the tech center, because this is where she built it when she needed for her roofs and things like that. So she did that, and now she's down to you. And so I'm not sure what she's doing.
NEXT> Christine Downing: She used. That project as part of her college entry portfolio, which, well, they were pretty bad. They were pretty impressed by that. She had taken that on. And yeah.

[9442-170] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the Chair's absence | 2017-11-15
PREV> Christine Downing: concepts and some nutrition concepts because he had gotten them very young. So he had to learn about their feed ratio, etc.. I mean, he takes care of in terms of vet services to make sure they're healthy, you know, when shots, etc.. So yeah.
TEXT> I'm just saying you're wishing you had video of some of the stuff that these kids are doing, because that to me would be awesome to see.
NEXT> Christine Downing: I do. And my next thing is, well, so I'm going to put a little plug in and Lexi can help me with this group that we have started at.

[9442-171] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: I'm just saying you're wishing you had video of some of the stuff that these kids are doing, because that to me would be awesome to see.
TEXT> I do. And my next thing is, well, so I'm going to put a little plug in and Lexi can help me with this group that we have started at. Stevens called the Student Voice and Communication Team is working with Claremont Community Television, and our first task is we're learning from Keith how to make quality public service announcements. PSA  and so we are picking topics and the kids are going to start producing PSA. And it's  all around the theme of did you know? And it's the highlights of Stevens. We're starting with Stevens. Then we're going to branch out to the school district, then go community based and go to our nonprofit organization and say, hey, how can we help you to get your word out?  But it's also a way and we tackle all issues, like.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Every.

[9442-210] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: Tough.
TEXT> Following one of our student leaders, because there's no way I can match. But well done. You see, Lexi talked about gear up, regional gear up in New Hampshire, and there's information regarding a meeting that's going to take place in Concord  with Stevens High School and CMS staff  dealing with our Gear Up New Hampshire program. And in your packet on the back of my superintendents report, there's background information. It's a great opportunity for our middle school students and our students as they pass through Stevens High School. This is a box full of vouchers. And Mike patron has graciously volunteered. He's one of two board members.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's Mike.

[9442-213] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-15
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: and middle school and elementary staff, a greater awareness as to the importance of of diversity as we move forward with improving our background. There's also a brief update regarding the food service program, and the Bluff Elementary School Breakfast program is in a trial.
TEXT> And last but not least, the last page deals with another reason why we are proud of our students and staff. If you can read that email  from Somerville, some is worth rather a parent from Somers Worth and the way our student athletes and coaches of our football team  address that. Gentlemen alumni of Stevens High School who remembers his team. And it's quite touching reading this email. So once again, we measure our students by what they do. And this is a wonderful measure of our students. Thank you.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Thank you. Any questions for superintendent.

[9442-228] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, Claremont School District | 2017-11-15
PREV> Josh Malloy: little fuzzy because it was a long day. But I'm pretty sure they didn't get back to us until the next day. We had already rebuilt the server. We had put the data back in from a backup. We patched the vulnerability, we reloaded everything.
TEXT> So everything was up and running, and people showed up the next day and didn't realize anything had happened that night. There was nothing in the news. Nobody had to reenter a massive amount of data.  And that's just one example of the things we do in the background that I think a lot of people don't even realize happens. So we do a lot to support what goes on in this district. And I hear countless times teachers telling me. Wow. If your tech people weren't here, I wouldn't be able to teach what I'm teaching to my students. If my devices aren't working, if my projector doesn't working, they're here. They support us and we can get back up and running.  Some of my employees, they work multiple jobs to supplement their income, and yet they have probably some of the best understanding of the systems that we use. Among other colleagues in the state that I've worked with, to quote a recent comment from a service ticket.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Is there an IT guy in the house? They're all here.

[9442-287] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: These are not, these are questions people have asked inquiring of the administration for more information. So you're making it sound like we're in an adversarial posture here, and we're not. We're simply information gathering. I just want to make that clear for those listening.
TEXT> There's not jobs. This isn't I feel I feel your compassion. And I hear your compassion. And and we can see in technology probably has been the back burner for years. And we want to bring that forward.  And we have the people in place now. We have, you know, this good structure now that's starting to put that into picture, into play and showing, you know, answering these questions really honestly is what we needed to see, you know, because, you know, we have questions to, you know, to what you can do and what you can't do. And you know, my thoughts come back to Corey always hunting down grants. You know, is there some electric like chronic grants that we could find is there's, you know, are there some other avenues to help with the process too? We're not saying that we're going to wipe you out and we don't want anything to do. We're not spending any more money. We just want to know where it's going to be the most beneficial to spend the money for the children.  And and if technology needs to be at that point, then we don't want you to be on the defense. We don't want you to feel like you're getting slashed. We want you to we just want you to come knowing that we're concerned enough to look at everything, not just one particular thing.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And we think you're doing a great job. And if it wasn't for the step up in the in in recent times, you know, since I've been on the board

[9442-299] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-15
PREV> Josh Malloy: and security that were part of a safety and security plan that was already in place. So we already had the audits in place and we already had the plan in place. But now there's this state grant that we're pursuing through that. So we.
TEXT> Do here. But those are things that that's what you want to come tell us and don't when we ask questions, don't feel like it's an attack or a personal attack, even even to employees, please. Because, you know, we're we're just trying to build solutions for everybody to make it a better educational system for the children.  And  and electronics is going to be part of that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Great.

[9442-408] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: We have.
TEXT> Michelle, if I may finish, if the board wishes to pursue that board, I will come back December 6th and you will see what that looks like. I will do it with all due respect and try to minimize the impact on children. That will be the goal. But I did not want to just say, sure, board, let's just do this and go through this exercise without you at least understanding what I presented last two weeks ago.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: But we.

[9442-427] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: I do not I.
TEXT> Do not consider you evil. I do not consider you incompetent. But to build a budget based on reducing the tax rate by one and three quarter dollars, that's the goal. That's not the charge of the school board. And all due respect, your charge of the education of the children. However, you've made it very clear to me  you want. On December 6th, a budget that will be based on $1.2 million below fiscal year 18, and you will see that budget and you will see what the way we got to that budget and that it will be in your lap to make your decisions as to where you want the school district to go.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. I'd like to see you. I'm feeling let me just say one more thing. Sorry.

[9470-32] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Michelle Pierce: start at the administration and work down or should we start? I mean, should we start right at the top of the iceberg and break it down, or. I mean, is that really the top of it or is it the bottom in my in.
TEXT> Well, I'd like to do a little a little more discussion on that before we, we go there. And one of the things I think that's an essential question. And because I think the last thing anybody wants to do is negatively impact  what our kids are getting for  a program. I think that that's that's the last thing we, we want.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We that's been my concern all along.

[9470-92] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Michelle Pierce: about the car salesman pitch, which apparently seems to be a in this scenario. What I feel is important is that we look at the special education department because we know that we, we, we are way, way past where we should be with that.
TEXT> And a lot of that has to do with not finding the facilities here in Claremont to house these kids. Then we need to go back and look at what are we doing with this building. We're not utilizing this building properly, the tech center. So then we have to go back and say, how can we reduce what we'd like to reduce, continue to move forward because the technical world, you're going to need the tech, you're going to need the technical support, you're going to need the computers and the programing, or we're not going to survive because our children are going to be so far behind. You know, children today I've seen three year olds that they're with smartphones amazingly. So I feel like there's this number here, there's this number here, and this is what we had for a number last year. And we managed to see 75,000 be taken away from that somewhere and not affect everybody. I know we just came out of collective. Well that's and that's settled now.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I wouldn't, I wouldn't say that it didn't affect I mean there were, there were certain things that we cut that we needed to do that we didn't because of

[9470-276] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: As part of it.
TEXT> As opposed to, because we know all the all the teaching faculties is working 185 or whatever they work. We know guidance, high school guidance works.  190 we know that,  but as far as administrators and quasi administrators go, curriculum people, I don't know what they work. And so it's a it's an  opportunity as opposed to making people unbent part time to making people still benefited full time, but paying fewer days. And I think that that's I don't see any way that that negatively impacts kids.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It depends on what they're doing during the summer. Yeah, true. Because there are a lot there's a lot of program development that happens in the summer.

[9470-283] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Frank Sprague: There's none of this is easy, Brian.
TEXT> Oh, I know, but I think that's a valid point though. I think program people that develop program versus just I mean, I'm a support staff at my school. I work all summer long and I there's not a lot for just people who are in the support world to do over the summer versus, you know, my world is different because that's what I do on my IT stuff. But the reality is, other than maybe working a little program stuff, there's not a ton to do for those days in the summer. So having somebody there getting paid for the sake of not losing them. To me, that is kind of a that's a balance of we really managing our money well doing that. But I definitely think with all the staff we have that's worth looking at. On the support staff side.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Can I ask the longevity under like on the very first page at the very top it says teacher and that says longevity. So we have a teacher, a name,

[9470-805] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Well, actually, I think they will qualify for the 504 is the safety net because they don't qualify for an.
TEXT> Eye, but not at all. Not even even some of those kids aren't going to qualify for 504. Is that true? Yes.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Yes, because my grandson is a 504 because he doesn't qualify for an IEP.

[9470-843] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: Half of.
TEXT> Them personally.  And my own soapbox is it always looks like it's high amount, but from working in classrooms or with kids and behaviors on the rise. And I'm not disagreeing with you, I'm just saying from a different perspective, there's not enough people. Thank you to work with the kids who are, behaviorally challenged in. I think we've all agreed like a thousand times over, that behaviors are on the rise. So I think it's just something to think about.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I would suggest that we get if we're going to have the people. Let's I'm smart about the way.

[9470-897] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Frank Sprague: The end of the school.
TEXT> The tuition. The tuition thing that I don't understand is, is is this, the transportation. So, for example, the budget said it was going to cost $53,000 to get all of these children on the 1617 budget. The actual came in at 82,000. So that's a really that's $20,000.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: One kid, one kid moved into the district.

[9470-906] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Frank Sprague: Because we all need something different.
TEXT> But they get you know, a lot of parents transport these children too.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Because what else we got on the on middle school.

[9470-1318] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Kids get write ups every other week.
TEXT> But you know, someone said it.  The class I took it. You know they're responsible for the the our kids lives every and and for what they get paid and what they're held accountable to. You couldn't.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Use personal sick time in the benefits.

[9470-1642] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> I'm not sure there's other things that they can do for the students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[9495-16] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: kind of like a big weight lifted off our shoulders, kind of like, yeah, we can do this. And it's okay having people help us. It's totally fine. So tomorrow, which is Thursday, December 7th, is the Stevens High School band inquire Windsor winter concert.
TEXT> The concert band, concert choir, jazz band, chamber ensembles, Stephen Ayers and Cardinal Voices will be performing in the Stevens High School auditorium at 7:00 p m. Admission is free for anyone to enjoy, but donations are greatly appreciated. There will be a 5050 raffle along with a gift basket. Prize concessions will be on sale during a shortened mission. We hope to see you there this Saturday, December 9th, which is over there in the back somewhere. Is taking the Steven Stevens High School band and choir to see The Nutcracker at the Boston Opera House. We will also be going to Fire and Ice for dinner. Myself, along with the rest of the musicians at Stevens, are extremely excited for this opportunity. Thank you to everyone who helped make this trip in a trip of a lifetime possible. Some students involved in a myriad of clubs and organizations met with Miss Berry today to discuss the budget and their concerns surrounding it. Many of these students are members of the Student Voice and Communications team at Stevens. Sadly, I was not able to go because we had a junior and senior meeting, but I wish I could be there.
NEXT> Lexi: So then another update for Stevens. On Tuesday, November 28th, the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center hosted a career fair in the John Goodrich Community Room. The fair ran

[9495-17] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: discuss the budget and their concerns surrounding it. Many of these students are members of the Student Voice and Communications team at Stevens. Sadly, I was not able to go because we had a junior and senior meeting, but I wish I could be there.
TEXT> So then another update for Stevens.  On Tuesday, November 28th, the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center hosted a career fair in the John Goodrich Community Room. The fair ran from 830 to 11:00 am and was attended by students from Stevens High School, Claremont Middle School, Newport Middle High School, and Fall Mountain Regional High School. Local businesses and industries that reflect agricultural science, health science, manufacturing, technology, and engineering set up informational displays and provided representatives to speak with students about employment opportunities in their organizations. Dartmouth-Hitchcock, Red River technologies, hyperthermia, Waylon, Wheeling Engineering, and Abbey foods,  which they provide our lunch, which is amazing, by the way.  We're just a few of the approximately 20 regional presenters. Additionally, River Valley Community College in New Hampshire Technical Institute had displays of their certificate and degree programs. Approximately 50 students from the Stevens High School visited the fair during flex or their CTE class, with at least another 100 students from CMS Newport and Fall Mountain who attended later in the event. New Hampshire Bureau of Career Development Director Eric Feldberg, who attended, declared that the fair was an excellent opportunity for the students in region number ten to make connections between their learning and future careers. The Goodrich Room was packed to capacity of for much of the morning, which speaks to the success of the event. The peer students will be involved in at least one board and center holiday meal this year.
NEXT> Lexi: These kids also make weekly visits to their to either Silver Maples Pleasant Preschool or Green Mountain Childcare. In addition, they each have four assigned little buddies that they visit

[9495-18] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: connections between their learning and future careers. The Goodrich Room was packed to capacity of for much of the morning, which speaks to the success of the event. The peer students will be involved in at least one board and center holiday meal this year.
TEXT> These kids also make weekly visits to their to either Silver Maples Pleasant Preschool or Green Mountain Childcare. In addition, they each have four assigned little buddies that they visit each week from our three elementary schools. I have a lot of friends involved in the peer program, and they always they're always so excited when they come back from here because they get to play board games with them and play on the park with them, and it's kind of like they're able to be a little kid again. So it's just really awesome.  They spend approximately one hour per day, five times a week reaching out to our community. There are 20 students total peer outreach, 14 new students this year, and Peer Capstone six students returning for a second year. These students, these 20 students collectively spend approximately 100 hours a week, which is 4000 hours per school year, providing community outreach and support. So that's that's Stevens. And then a little Bluff report. The third, fourth and fifth graders, students at Bluff Elementary School, attended  School Day yesterday with the Dartmouth College women's basketball. They were also taught healthy eating habits, the importance of physical fitness and how to have good sportsmanship, how to build and maintain teamwork, and how to be leaders.  Maple Avenue two foster grandparents are joining the Maple Avenue family.
NEXT> Lexi: Mama and papa. Am I saying that right? Where do you go? I think I'm saying that correctly. We'll be soon spending four days a week from 9:00 to 130

[9495-19] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: the Dartmouth College women's basketball. They were also taught healthy eating habits, the importance of physical fitness and how to have good sportsmanship, how to build and maintain teamwork, and how to be leaders. Maple Avenue two foster grandparents are joining the Maple Avenue family.
TEXT> Mama and papa. Am I saying that right? Where do you go? I think I'm saying that correctly. We'll be soon spending four days a week from 9:00 to 130 with the kindergartners and second graders. The Maple Avenue family is so happy to have them miss feelings. Third graders learn how to write a friendly letter during writing class. All of the students wrote letters to the staff of the United States Military Hospital in Kuwait. Yesterday, Tuesday, December 5th, the students received letters back from the same staff members. Miss Feelings Classroom was full of so much excitement due to the letters that came to them all the way from Kuwait. In addition to the heartwarming letters sent by the students, each student sent a painted rock to the staff members. This way, their rocks could be added to the United States military hospitals. Rock garden that holds rocks painted by students from all across America. This event will continue as the year progresses. That just. Oh, that just touched my heart. When I read that email, I was like, I had to took all of me to not burst out in tears in the library today.
NEXT> Lexi: The Maple Avenue PTO Penguin Plunge store has opened this week. This store gives the students the ability to purchase gifts for family members, friends, or even teachers. Most gifts

[9495-34] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Nice. Yes. I'm so thank you. But.
TEXT> But the but is a small B. I'm very confident, but we still need an additional $1,200 to cover shipping and handling. The Friends of Music is not an extremely profitable group, so they do not have a budget large enough to cover this cost. And so the question that  asks, would the school district be able to pay for the shipping and handling of $7,000 worth of acoustical panels that would benefit our students for approximately $1,200  fee? I certainly would like to look into exploring that. We did not budget $1,200 for shipping and handling for this wonderful donation, but I would like to explore what our options are because the students deserve it. Our music program deserves it. And what a remarkable comment from a resident.  Acknowledging our music program and acknowledging our student musicians with this donation. So  the board's approval, I'd like to explore further. And I'd also like to share with you one final thing in front of you is a  an article produced by the Reaching Higher New Hampshire organization, and it's entitled Analysis of Senate Bill 193, Senate Bill 193, which will be voted on next year. Early part of the year, creates a statewide voucher program through the Education Freedom Savings Account.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Let me just speak briefly about this. Senate Bill 193 allows eligible families to receive 95% of the state funding that would normally go to public education, about $3,600 per

[9495-35] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: a an article produced by the Reaching Higher New Hampshire organization, and it's entitled Analysis of Senate Bill 193, Senate Bill 193, which will be voted on next year. Early part of the year, creates a statewide voucher program through the Education Freedom Savings Account.
TEXT> Let me just speak briefly about this. Senate Bill 193 allows eligible families to receive 95% of the state funding that would normally go to public education, about $3,600 per student, plus the differentiated aid in the form of an education Freedom savings account or voucher. The funds could be used for private and religious tuition, schools, home schooling costs, tutoring and other educated expenses. The concern about this is that some aspects of this bill were amended, and one of the concerns is the eligibility criteria. And the criteria is basically this. Being a New Hampshire student between the ages of five and 20 can apply for the voucher. Students must either come from households earning less than 300% of the federal poverty line, which about $74,000 for a family of four have an individual education plan, attend a poor performing school or have an application that had gone unfunded. The concern is that the largest pool of eligible students will likely come from those households that earn this amount of money, 7400 or less for a family of four, the concern about Claremont is simply that 70% of the students who apply for the voucher will likely come from comparatively poor property, poor communities that would be most impacted by a loss of state funding.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The stabilization grant intended to protect those districts from catastrophic funding losses that this would be, would cost the state at least $31 million in new spending in the next

[9495-136] Unidentified | Music director, Stevens High School (student rep refers to her as ASR  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: students audition and make it into that, two in the mixed choir, one in the treble choir, and one scored high enough to make it into the band. And the honors brass choir on trumpet. So those are super cool things. That one's in April.
TEXT> Then also to reiterate, Lexie's the concert is tomorrow. For anybody listening, it's free. Steven. Sasquatch 7 p.m.. It's going to be super fun. Greatly appreciate. Yeah. We also have a bank sale. 5050 raffle and a cool holiday gift basket raffle.  That 100 mile market in Claremont. Spice and Dry Goods donated a couple things for, which was really cool. Also, before we go on winter break, we have the children's concerts where we spend literally all day performing.  And it's my favorite thing ever all year, because I get to hang out with small children and they're so fun.  And that is Thursday the 21st, and we're doing for concerts for the three elementary schools, all of CMS and all of unity. So yeah, I'm excited for that. And that's it.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Thank you very much. Congratulations.

[9495-139] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anybody else?
TEXT> I just I don't do it. Kay said. Sure. Okay. So like K said about the children's concerts,  and when she says all day, she means all day. We don't get at school. We don't get to school at 725. We get to school at 7:00. We got to set up for this thing, and we have a concert tomorrow night, which is going to be like an hour and a half long. We have to put in an hour and a half concert into four concerts that last 45 minutes. So it's a lot of practicing and I'm really excited about it too. So sorry. So I'd like to address all of you today.
NEXT> Amanda Plummer Harrell: About something. My name is Amanda Plummer Harrell and Sabrina Harrell. We are parents of bluff students. We live in Claremont. We're going to address you about something that happened

[9495-142] Sabrina Harrell | Public commenter, Bluff School parent (name as introduced by Amanda Pl | 2017-12-06
PREV> Amanda Plummer Harrell: this and trying to find other policies that would support what this teacher said, and I could not. And even the principal admitted that the policy did not, in any fashion, tell you or tell us what we could or could not provide. And, Sabrina.
TEXT> The wellness policy, as I read it,  states what is acceptable for the school to provide their children or the children of the school for food and drink. It does not say anywhere in their what a parent can provide their children for food and drink during school hours.  No, it's not my child. I was not happy when I heard any of this either. There are a lot of parents in the bluff community that can't afford certain things. The Dollar Tree is a godsend for a lot of people. You can go in and you can buy anything for a dollar. I do this weekly. I have four of my own children that go to bluff. It is very hard to provide children with what people call healthy drinks. 100% fruit juice. I have pineapple juice, Dole pineapple juice 100% fruit juice, 32g of sugar.
NEXT> Amanda Plummer Harrell: Per eight.

[9495-145] Amanda Plummer Harrell | Public commenter, Bluff School parent (name as stated at mic) | 2017-12-06
PREV> Sabrina Harrell: Ounce eight ounce glass. Do you know how much how many grams of sugar are in a market basket? Container of, lemonade per eight ounce glass. 17.
TEXT> Now, despite the fact that, you know, I totally agree with the health initiative and trying to educate our children about healthy eating habits, I strongly feel that this is an issue for our community. We have a wonderful, wonderful school in bluff and we have a fabulous community. I love living there. I love living five minutes from my school. I've never had an issue with the teachers and and the principal or anything, but I think that attempting to control what parents provide for their children with their hard earned money  out of their pockets is not acceptable. And the fact that my child told me there was a little boy next to her who was drinking a Kool-Aid, there was a girl in Sabrina's daughter's class who brings in fruit.
NEXT> Sabrina Harrell: By the foot fruit rollups.

[9495-169] Tom Rock | Public commenter, Ward 2 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Oh.
TEXT> I'm Tom Rock from Ward two. About a month and a half ago, you guys had a meeting  with your directives, I think were published in the paper. About what? What you were looking for and cuts  to the budget.  I sent you all, I think, except for Alex,  email describing my thoughts. So I thought I'd come back and just kind of explain a little bit where I was coming from. It seems to me that the first thing we all want to consider is an education for the students that gets them prepared for life after high school.  I didn't hear a lot about that in that particular article.  It was mostly about cutting costs.  The thing that concerns me a little bit is if you if you look at the federal government and what they're doing, if you look at the state government and what they're doing, they're all saying, we want a great education. We want them prepared for life. And then they turn around and cut funding. You all know that. So to have the line of defense at the local level follow that same theme seems to me to be a disservice to the students. So I, I would ask that everybody stop and think about what the school board wants, what the administration needs, what the students really need to come out of school with the skills they need and say, how do we get the skills for an appropriate cost?
NEXT> Tom Rock: Let's not say we're going to cut. That's not the first. That's not the first statement you want to make. What you want to make in my mind is a

[9495-170] Tom Rock | Public commenter, Ward 2 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Tom Rock: I would ask that everybody stop and think about what the school board wants, what the administration needs, what the students really need to come out of school with the skills they need and say, how do we get the skills for an appropriate cost?
TEXT> Let's not say we're going to cut. That's not the first. That's not the first statement you want to make. What you want to make in my mind is a statement of what are the student need to be successful when they leave the school system. So here we are tonight, I guess, going to be starting to talk about budgets, and you probably will have a lot more discussions before you're done. But I would say that respect for both sides of the issue needs to be the first line and listen to each other come to solutions on the issues that you each have, rather than, okay, that's going to cost too much. Let's cross that off. You know, I understand that budgets have done budgets for 30 years. Budgets are give and take, and I think there's plenty of give and take that can be had in this community. So my vote, in order to prepare students for life is the budget. If it's 30 million and you just get by, 31 million is the better budget. That's the way I look at it, because the student comes first. We're talking about your proposal.
NEXT> Unidentified: To cut it.

[9495-182] Steve | Public commenter, Francis Street (first name as stated; later thanked  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Steve: data sheet that I'd like to provide to everybody, but I ran out of toner, so I have two copies. I will gladly share it, but it's a flammable substance. It's harmful if swallowed, irritating to eyes. And we're using it in a spray bottle.
TEXT> The key fact here is, is that when you mix oil and water, it does not mix. It's actually two separate items. The other thing is, is that they also say they inhalation. They recommend that you use a respirator with this product. So if we're not mixing it to the correct consistency and we're putting an eight year old in charge of it, I do have a problem with that. I have addressed it with the school  superintendent. But realistically, the only thing I've heard is is it won't happen again. Well, according to the school policy, I believe that the board has directed it would be G, b, e, b, b, line seven and eight, which is the employee student relations. Our teachers are responsible for the health and safety of our children while they're in their care. We just put an eight year old in control of a product that's flammable, harmful if swallowed, and I in a spray bottle. And they have recommendation on inhalation. I find that grossly neglectful. And I ask the school board to investigate this further beyond what the superintendent has done. And I would like to know what the results are of that.
NEXT> Steve: I can provide more information and contact information to me directly, but to get back to the bigger business on hand, which is the budget, we're focusing on lots of

[9495-187] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 3, vice president of the Claremont Development  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: hear cited at the top of the list are the problems about finding workers. And workforce development is a problem in the entire state, not just Claremont. And part of that trouble is not is not going to be resolved if we ultimately end up.
TEXT> And I'm not saying that we will, but if we ultimately end up with a school system that is perceived as underfunded or unsupported or otherwise disregarded, and I think that it is critically important to remember  as we go through these line items. And by the way, I was pleased to see at the interim board meeting last week the thoughtful nature that you guys were going through and trying to develop questions that were that needed to be asked. I think that's prudent of any budget committee. So I appreciate the the way you guys are doing that. But going forward, considering how important the schools are. That would echo what Tom said and also the gentleman before me about making sure that funding goes through to areas where maybe it has lagged,  in recent years, and that would include trades and  areas of of a study that includes Stem and IT and advanced manufacturing, those types of things. We want to make sure that we don't  come out of this process with a situation where the schools are perceived as less than adequate. And so ultimately, I'm hoping that you guys will use a scalpel when you're looking at this and not a machete. I think most, most everybody that I've talked to has been equally concerned about that and that student outcomes, as Tom is suggesting earlier, our front and center of this process.
NEXT> Unidentified: And ultimately, I think some of the questions, the hardest questions are going to be not necessarily what to cut in the budget, but what to keep in. And those

[9495-188] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 3, vice president of the Claremont Development  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: guys will use a scalpel when you're looking at this and not a machete. I think most, most everybody that I've talked to has been equally concerned about that and that student outcomes, as Tom is suggesting earlier, our front and center of this process.
TEXT> And ultimately, I think some of the questions, the hardest questions are going to be not necessarily what to cut in the budget, but what to keep in.  And those are those are difficult things to ask. So I just ask for your thoughtful deliberation as you go through this and really think through the process of what it takes to make student outcomes what they need to be here in Claremont. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: Larissa Cahill, Ward two. And I want to echo what Mr. said about your service here. It's really the height of citizenship and civic responsibility to serve on a board.

[9495-192] Larissa Cahill | Public commenter, Ward 2, Stevens High School staff and parent (ASR 'L | 2017-12-06
PREV> Larissa Cahill: prefer them to be perfectly honest, I prefer New Englanders. I prefer folks from New Hampshire because I tell them they're solid, they're from granite, they're salt of the earth people, and they deserve quality education. Their education shouldn't be dictated by their zip code.
TEXT> And so while you consider this really important work, I just felt as though I would be remiss if I didn't come up here and say something. One of my favorite quotes from Shakespeare, my favorite quote from Shakespeare is from Lady Macbeth. What's done can't be undone.  And my fear is that we undo so much that it affects our children's children. So just please take that into consideration when you do this important work. And thank you for your time.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.

[9495-199] Ron Perry | Public commenter | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Award. Award 313.
TEXT> My name is Ron Perry.  I grew up with some of these teachers throughout the school. I honestly don't have any complaints about the teachers or the system. What? You had already brought it up, Mr. Goodwin, about Senate Bill 193. I think it's something very serious. If you guys haven't heard of this, you should really look into it. If you think we're hurting now, we will be designated as a city if something like this passes. And I wonder if you guys are actually budgeting in for something like that next year. Are you even thinking, what if 20% of your enrollment is gone overnight? What do you what do you what are we doing? Are we stuck with another $1.8 million? Are we you know, what are we stuck with? Do you guys. I mean, these are very serious questions we have to be asking ourselves. And, I think it's it's a very hard thing to take away from children because we all want the best for our kids. We all really, truly do. If you don't know, the average income, family home median income in Claremont is only $34,000.
NEXT> Ron Perry: Most of the teachers are making about 44. So just take care of your salaries and slash your ten. And that's your average family income in Claremont. So when you're

[9495-216] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Sure.
TEXT> Michelle Pierce, Ward one. As a community member, as a parent of a first grader, as a board member here tonight, sitting here seeing all of the people in this room,  hearing all of the different comments, reading, I'd like to express a few things. For one, some of you haven't heard all of the conversations that we've spent on these school board budgets, because one of the most important things is the children. And we want to make sure that the children are the first thing. So if we can find better ways, that's what we're doing. So I want to emphasize  that. I also want to emphasize how proud I am as a citizen of Claremont, to see people stepping up and coming in and doing exactly what, rather than talking.  It's not about talking, it's about action now, and you're showing your actions by coming in, speaking your minds and being a part of something bigger than just a computer or yourself. So I thank you for that. After being here for two years, I have found some of the most frustrating things that have happened and some of the most amazing things that have happened. And the best part is the children and the fact that it's had on the children positively. So I don't want anyone to lose sight of the fact that because a $1.1 million or 1.7, it doesn't even matter.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: We just wanted to look to see where we could help make it better in all areas for the kids to benefit. And if you read things in the paper,

[9495-217] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: most amazing things that have happened. And the best part is the children and the fact that it's had on the children positively. So I don't want anyone to lose sight of the fact that because a $1.1 million or 1.7, it doesn't even matter.
TEXT> We just wanted to look to see where we could help make it better  in all areas for the kids to benefit. And if you read things in the paper, don't hesitate to call and ask, because they don't always put out all of what we said. So it's really stressful sometimes to hear if people don't believe that we care in our number one priority is the children. And that's why I came on the school board two years ago when, quite frankly, nobody had signed up the last day of closing and there were still two open positions. So I'm really excited now to look out here and see that they'll possibly be running mates for me. And and the other is running. I just wanted to say thank you as a community member, not as a school board member, but as a community member, because I've watched this grow. So be proud of yourselves. Be proud of your community, and know that all of us have your children and our children as the best interest for all of this. Thank you for your time.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Anybody else for citizens comments? That will close for this in to comments. Discussion items. We have a City Manager, Ryan McNutt.

[9495-219] Ryan McNutt | City Manager, City of Claremont | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anybody else for citizens comments? That will close for this in to comments. Discussion items. We have a City Manager, Ryan McNutt.
TEXT> Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, school board members, for inviting me tonight. I know you have a long agenda. I did not make any lengthy presentation or crazy lecture. I did provide some data and some handouts. I hope that can inform any questions you might have. And our discussion. I'm not really here to offer my opinion on your budget process. I understand it's an incredibly difficult budget process. I'm going to be entering into the municipal budget process again starting in March, and they're always tough choices to make when I'm hoping to be able to answer your questions tonight and provide some perspective  on the city side, the city and the schools are symbiotically related. What happens to one of us affects the other, so we have to be able to work together and move forward as a community with the best interests of the community at heart. And on a note of moving forward with the best interests of the community at heart and the superintendent's opening presentation, speaking about that really generous and amazing donation of $7,000 and the struggle that you're going to have with doing the shipping and handling, my friend David Putnam and I will donate as well hundred dollars.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9495-224] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Ryan McNutt: So again, I think this might flow better if I start reacting to questions that school board members might have. Not really sure of exactly the information that you're interested in from the city. So that that might help start kicking things off.
TEXT> This isn't really much a question, but on behalf of the Stevens High School's music department, thank you tremendously. Like. Thank you. I don't know how many times I can say it, but thank you. Like. Thank you. Honestly, I'm just so dumbfounded right now. Thank you.
NEXT> Ryan McNutt: Really goes to David Putnam.

[9495-312] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: going to be the proposed reductions, not reductions we're recommending. But reductions that we are proposing to comply with your request. And you'll see the amount under board directives. Then you're going to see, and to quote Tom Rock, why don't you work in compromise?
TEXT> It will be our recommendation to adjust what we recommend you consider adjusting from your directive. And that would be our recommended budget. And on the right column you will see a brief description. You may wish to review this and come back at another meeting. We can we will be very willing to go through each one of these items. But what's important to note is that these items are not just numbers. Every single item represents an impact on student and impact on the school district, so it's critical that you understand what that represents. You'll also see at the bottom an opportunity to have the totals in comparison to your directive. In comparison to our recommendation, and then the adjustments. And you'll also see the impact on the tax rate. There's another document which will be a comparison of administration and support staff of of five communities. Because there was a discussion regarding are we top heavy in Claremont, Claremont, Kearsarge, Lebanon, Fall Mountain and Newport. And you'll see the opportunity to review administration as well as support staff, even to the point where you can compare student ratios to the administration. And the third document. Are our answers to your questions from your November 29th board meeting. So we're going to pass these out to you, and we're also going to pass them out to the residents here.
NEXT> Unidentified: I have.

[9495-349] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Josh Malloy: and it's cheaper to hire someone to come in with those skills and those tools to do that for us, than it is for me to pay someone on staff to to do that for us. So this position, that's that's why that does that.
TEXT> Answer the question. That's where I think a lot of us were looking is that, you know, we've done these things for years. We've had these contracts for years. And that's why we need to look at these things. And if we're paying this contract too much and we could do it cheaper by ourselves, or we're paying someone to dust projector bulbs that shouldn't be paid at that level, then why are we doing that? Those are the changes that are not going to affect our kids, but they're going to affect the bottom dollar. That's what we need to look at. That's what.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: This is actually a change that would be cheaper, but we'd get more out of it.

[9495-359] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Josh Malloy: the ability to do so if they're local. I think the board at that meeting said we shouldn't necessarily pay more to do local, necessarily, but we should include them, always when we're going out to bid to make sure that they have the opportunity.
TEXT> I know it's really relative, because I know the local companies that I've worked with and they they work really well with schools, even schools across the river. And they will take kids over for internships and to help. So it's not just an opportunity for helping you. It's an opportunity to help the kids get into the field right here locally.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: I love those partnerships. I'll do those all the time. That's great.

[9495-431] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: That was later in the summer. No, it was.
TEXT> The stipend for assessment. With exams like SATs, Stevens High School students, as well as high school students from other communities come to Stevens High School and take their, for example, SATs. By eliminating this position, our students will have to travel to another high school along with other students to complete their SATs.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Can I speak to that? I actually developed that position when I was the principal. With that position is back when we were doing kneecap, that person helped coordinate all

[9495-459] Paulette Fitzgerald | Claremont Middle School administrator (called up by superintendent to  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Patricia Barry: So.
TEXT> Our social worker does, a lot of work primarily focusing on our students, our homeless students. So she  coordinates, a lot of things for them, including  clothing, access to a variety of services. In addition to that, she also is part of our attendance protocol. So if there are students who are having difficulty with attendance, she will go out and make home visits. She really engages  with our families and of all of our families in a variety of ways as well. They come to her for, a lot of different resources. If they need fuel assistance, she can hook them up with those resources and all of those things. While they're not directly related to, to educating the students, they are all supporting the students,  and  it's really a very vital role. In addition to that, she coordinated our Back to School festival this year.  Any of you attended that? That was a pretty amazing event. And, I'm just trying to think I probably.
NEXT> Unidentified: Should take.

[9495-499] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: We are working on that with the confines of that particular grant, but it doesn't address specifically what this role is doing.
TEXT> The system of care grant. I, we we were awarded that grant because the needs of our student population and the needs of certain portions of our community. Social workers are not teachers, but their objective is to allow a child to be in the position to be taught and to learn. Not all children come from stable homes. And and so we're trying to I call that person a life jacket for many children.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I agree, and I think that just because they're not teachers doesn't mean they're not educators in that profession. Absolutely. You gotta when kids come to school and they got

[9495-501] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Alex Herzog: in that profession. Absolutely. You gotta when kids come to school and they got to worry about where their roof is, where their meals coming from, all that. I get where you're coming from, Chris, and but I understand where Corey's coming from on that.
TEXT> Why the. I'm not questioning the need or the position. I'm questioning the funding. And for me, part of my logic to all of this has been we're getting more and more about us, the schools, raising the kids versus educating the kids. And I think when you look at a big chunk of our budget, that's it's nobody's fault. It's the community need. But that is the reality of the situation is money.
NEXT> Unidentified: We could stop.

[9495-507] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member (Speaker 27 attribution by elimination a | 2017-12-06
PREV> Chris Irish: We've been talking about this for years, so I think maybe this is the opportunity to change it.
TEXT> The kids going to be out and that's not acceptable to me.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I want to I, I'd like to ask a few questions. First of all, Courtney is amazing. I met with her a few times. I know her, she's great.

[9495-522] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Paulette Fitzgerald: So, for example, we have a student assistance team and Courtney coordinates that. So it's a wraparound team. So she coordinates with mental health services and you know, a variety of other services in the community and helps actually hook families up with those services.
TEXT> Again, my my issue never has been with the need or it is what it is. My issue has always been with the funding and the fact that we're being held to, to pay for all this when no one else, whether it's the city or other agencies, has stepped up and say it's a community issue. Not not we're the last ones to see them all. You know, we can do great. I've said this for years. We do great. We can protect the kids, feed the kids, clothe the kids, do everything for those kids for seven hours a day, and we are sending them right back to hell. Yep. That's where the community has to step up and say, wait a minute. You know, we're we're doing great, but we're not helping and  we're sending them right back to help.
NEXT> Paulette Fitzgerald: So Michelle, if it would help I could get you the job descriptions of both of these roles to.

[9495-526] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: in order to be able to push them. Right. But in terms of the question, Chris, after versus why can't we just use that grant to fund this position? Well, it's something I've learned from her about how those funds are able to be allocated.
TEXT> So I guess I guess my concern is, is we talk about having someone who just  makes sure that all of the, the,  the grants that are happening are all stay in line and all of that. And then we are talking about cutting a social worker who is a direct impact to our children.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yep.

[9495-559] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: No, I'm not jumping ahead. I'm just I'm what I'm doing asking is where does the money come from for that position? And is that a possibility for the position that you folks are discussing right now?
TEXT> I'd like to bring Pat Barry up to talk about the Atletic trainer, and perhaps you could discuss that same time. The athletic trainer is, as you've seen, your packet tonight is resigned at the end of this month. But we're attempting to sustain that program in that position for the benefit of our student athletes. Pat. Thank you.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So.

[9495-561] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: So.
TEXT> We are in the fifth  or sixth year of, a contracted service with Valley Regional Hospital, who we have a contract with for our athletic trainer. And that's for $46,000. They are not a school employee, but they work with our students. We pay the salary, the hospital pays the benefits. I when I learned that Ashley would not be staying on with us, I reached out to other schools in the district and I in the state, and I asked if they had athletic trainers and if they did, what was the nature of their job, their hours, the salaries that they were paid, etc. and I got a lot of feedback from from a lot of schools. And so what you see there  in the second column of 27,000 is a midpoint where I saw a lot of schools contract with physical therapy agencies, rather than through hospitals  who farm out athletic trainers. So this is an opportunity for us to redesign that position, look into other ways to fund that position. And so that is what I'd like to do moving forward.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: I feel it's very important we see the benefit of having an athletic trainer, for our students. But it's a it's a place where we can potentially save $19,000 by,

[9495-562] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Patricia Barry: schools contract with physical therapy agencies, rather than through hospitals who farm out athletic trainers. So this is an opportunity for us to redesign that position, look into other ways to fund that position. And so that is what I'd like to do moving forward.
TEXT> I feel it's very important we see the benefit of having an athletic trainer, for our students. But it's a it's a place where we can potentially save $19,000 by, you know, some some schools spend 9000 on a stipend, others spend $48,000 doing it the way we've been doing it for the last 5 or 6 years. So I think there's some room for some savings there by looking at different models.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: All right. Can you can you just touch on the crisis, counselor?

[9495-565] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Patricia Barry: does not overlap with the training and the expertise and the ability that our school counselors have to deal with those kinds of emotional crises, where without them, students would need to be immediately referred to West Central and West central is suffering staff shortages.
TEXT> They used to be in every week on our SS team meetings and have representation there. We have not had a representative in our student support team meetings at all this year, because they have not been able to replace physicians there. So speaking to what Paulette referred to, social services are, are are hurting for staffing and that then the need for those kind of therapeutic services falls to our crisis counselor.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Lexi. Did you have a single dad?

[9495-594] Unidentified | School counselor, Stevens High School (name not stated) | 2017-12-06
PREV> Patricia Barry: Qualifications.
TEXT> High school board I mean school counselors. Nice to see all of you. So. In my program, I graduated from Keene State. We did learn how to help students in crisis, but I don't have a psych degree. I'm not a psychologist. So when students come to me in crisis, I often work with our crisis counselors to get them the help they need. So five student comes to me and says, Miss Rhines, I don't want to do I feel like I might harm myself or harm others. My first call is to a crisis counselor and they come down and we usually team, not teach. But, you know, team council, I guess the student and kind of figure out what services we can provide for them. My caseload is around 170 kids. And as we all know, Stevens is a very high need school. Without our crisis counselors, my day would be spend a lot of kids in my office trying to psych them out and help them basically mentally, and I wouldn't be able to provide other services to my students. You can ask Lexi. My office is a revolving door every day.
NEXT> Lexi: It's hard to get in there. There really is.

[9495-621] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Patricia Barry: Would be it would be traumatic.
TEXT> Because that's what they did to my child at Stevens High School 16 years ago.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Right.

[9495-623] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Alex Herzog: Right.
TEXT> When I. Now what I'm trying to point out here isn't that it isn't trying to traumatize the child. And it's saying that child's already in crisis. I've been in crisis. You don't really know what else is going on except the where you're going to get help. Okay, so I think some people that's great. If you have never had a crisis or you've never had to deal with a lot of personal issues or personal striving or death or whatever. However, if you have, there is a positive side to this. And and that's what I'm trying to get at. And really, that person should be in crisis immediately in the urgent care for the safety of the child. And Dartmouth-Hitchcock doesn't turn anyone away. Anybody, regardless, they will sit there until they can get them taken care of. I've taken plenty of people there. I'm sorry, I don't I don't feel like there should be so much emphasis on this one thing when we have everyone to look out for and then to turn around and say that one's not as important as the other, or this is not as important as that, as dividing people. And I, I don't agree with that either.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So I'm one life that's worth $78,000 for me. So that's.

[9495-625] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (first name only on record; title in | 2017-12-06
PREV> Alex Herzog: So I'm one life that's worth $78,000 for me. So that's.
TEXT> The only thing I can, I can say about removing the crisis counselor removes a very important resource to the Alt program. And so, you know, you have those kids in the all program who are teetering on the edge anyway of whether or not they can stay in public school or or whether we can meet their needs. And those kids in that program need a therapeutic environment on a daily basis. And without that resource, the impact will eventually be more kids having to go out of district.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So it's our responsibility to give them that. Is that what you're saying?

[9495-672] Amy | Adult education program lead, Claremont School District (first name on | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michael O'Neill: the expenses that we don't charge to the grants less all the revenues we receive. And we make a transfer from the general fund every year to cover the cost of that program. The net cost of that program, which has been about $55,000. Okay.
TEXT> And just to let everybody know that the largest amount of students are actually coming from Stevens. We do have some come from Newport, Fall Mountain,  Windsor, New Hampshire. JAG offer some Orion house, the New Hampshire employment, because our students are not under the age of 18. All of them we are we have true adults, so we have New Hampshire employment. River Valley actually has sent over a couple because they need developmental courses. And then we have others. I mean, we have some from I have a student right now from Franklin. I have one from Berlin, I have one, I have a couple from Manchester. Because of all the online courses that we're offering. As of right now, I have 118 students actually enrolled. They're enrolled in 61 classes. Many of them are actually online. There's 151 individual class enrollments. So and that's in the adult diploma,  20 of them 20 students are actually enrolled in traditional classes where they actually come here and physically sit in a class 49 adult, basic education classes are actually enrolled. 25 come for individual and classes. And then we have a teacher who goes up to the House of corrections twice a week and engages in classes up there with them, and there's  10 to 12 kind of rolling enrollments up there, men and women.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So in theory, if we increase our adult education portfolio and start embracing the online learning pieces of whatnot and just start increasing our enrollment, there's not only a benefit

[9495-707] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: we know we're not teaching butterflies three years in a row, and it's not even related to the standards that we're expected to teach. But it's just because we like it. We've we've been able to work toward aligning those areas within vertically and horizontally.
TEXT> We've had a 6% increase in LA scores and a 3% increase in math scores overall, and that's just end overall proficiency. So that's saying that we have had an increase in our student proficiency when they are assessed at the end of the year, compared to a benchmark that's, in my opinion, relatively arbitrary. If you look at growth, if you look at growth and you know, the number of our students who come in to our school system, not where they need to be, I think 60% of our kindergartners in one of our building,  do not have what they need to recognize first sound fluency or first sound. Kathleen. Help me.
NEXT> Unidentified: In a word. Yep.

[9495-710] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: growth in Ela, meaning that we are almost making a year and a quarter worth of learning happen in one year's time. We are catching kids up and we had 115% growth in math. So we are exceeding and that's that's aggregated across. The all.
TEXT> Levels one through eight. So we are exceeding what you would expect in one year's worth of time in terms of growth for our students. And we are increasing our students performance on their end proficiency and spec. And so in terms of curriculum specialists being in the nice to have category or the excess category, I don't view it that way because I view student learning as our primary function. And I have been able to demonstrate for you, the public and for parents that we are actually making games in student outcomes, not just telling you all the things that we're doing, but actually making gains in student outcomes as a result of the work that we've done in curriculum.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And I would ask you, I would ask you to look at this comparison of administrative and support staff of the five districts and notice that the support he cares

[9495-718] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: Yeah.
TEXT> So just keep that in mind. The two positions at the middle and the high school level are not year round positions, because I know that was another level of conversation that you had. Do we really need to have these people on staff year round? They are not their school year plus 20 days. Both of the folks that are on school year plus 20 days have. Far exceeded. Those periods of time.  And, I think all of the curriculum folks are certainly. Working their tails off to ensure student outcomes and supporting 1802 students across our district.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So question.

