[9740-387] Trinity Dicks | Project manager, System of Care grant, Claremont School District (intr | 2018-04-18
PREV> Trinity Dicks: perpetuate the cycle. So we're all about, you know, kind of figuring out what do we need to support this child in coming to school and being successful at school and making that happen for them? At the bottom, you'll see the list of collaborators.
TEXT> So we're collaborating. This list is constantly growing, a number of supports, both locally nationwide, county wide. And then as I mentioned before, when we were talking about the survey, there's six other school districts that are doing this in the state. So we get together regularly to meet and talk about things that are working in other school districts and things that have kind of like flopped or  failed as well. On the back, the other large piece of this grant is and it's really looking at what's called the MPs is a multi-tiered system of support, and it's focused on student behavior. So what we're being asked to do is really take a look at student behavior here in our district and take a look at what that looks like, what's working, what's not working. We're really taking a magnifying glass to look at what are we providing for the success of all students? What are the interventions that we're bringing in for the students that need additional supports, and what are we doing for those that need some one on one support as well? What's happened and what  has been shown through the research is that the more that the student is able to, you know, maintain, maintain their behavior, manage their emotions, are self-aware and can work through the day, their academics, you know, they do much better in their academics.
NEXT> Trinity Dicks: They are readily able to participate. They're more successful citizens. And that's really what's going back, is that we're not it's not all about academic performance. It's about longevity. What

[9740-388] Trinity Dicks | Project manager, System of Care grant, Claremont School District (intr | 2018-04-18
PREV> Trinity Dicks: what has been shown through the research is that the more that the student is able to, you know, maintain, maintain their behavior, manage their emotions, are self-aware and can work through the day, their academics, you know, they do much better in their academics.
TEXT> They are readily able to participate. They're more successful citizens.  And that's really what's going back, is that we're not it's not all about academic performance. It's about longevity. What are we? You know, what are we building for the students so that they can be thriving members of the community? And mentioned before that some of the students that we're seeing in the Fast Forward program, we're seeing it, mental health issues in their parents as well. So those supports weren't there for them as students either, or they didn't know how to access them. So that's part of this as well, is making sure students, parents, teachers, anybody is aware of what's available here in town when a student does need that additional support. So Corey, did I miss anything?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So I think you got it all.

[9740-394] Trinity Dicks | Project manager, System of Care grant, Claremont School District (intr | 2018-04-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: I have a couple things in the, I'm assuming that, that your organization becomes aware of students through, and at the SSD or T process that happens within the schools. How do you how are kids referred to you.
TEXT> So anybody can refer so parents can refer teachers can refer counselors. We've had a DC  F referral. We've had West Central Behavioral Health refer. They can come from anywhere. To be honest. And oftentimes it comes from a teacher who saying I'm not sure what to do. We have tried everything. And we're just in the supports aren't coordinated. So that's the other piece too, is that, you know, we might have a student going here, here and here, but nobody's talking to each other. So that's what that's about, is kind of bringing everybody around the table to come up with a plan of care that works for the student.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And there are specific parameters for who we're allowed to work with and who are not allowed to work with. And I don't know if you address that. I tuned

[9740-399] Trinity Dicks | Project manager, System of Care grant, Claremont School District (intr | 2018-04-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: for our new special ed director might be to with this program, do we see a difference and a change or reduction in or out of district placements as a result of this type of programing? We've talked a lot about the cost of that.
TEXT> So and that's one of the data points that we do track through Antioch is that we're tracking at a district placements, as well as they start looking at the money spent as well. You know, especially the money up front as far as prevention and awareness and all of that goes, is it worth it? You know, a lot earlier with the earlier kiddos and making a difference? It's not a catch all. It's not going to catch all of the students. But we're definitely going to hopefully make a dent in it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Doesn't have to catch many to be very cost effective. Right.

[9740-446] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: challenging to try and, look up the information on power school. And it could just be because there's so many more classes going on and there's a little bit more information. I'm not sure, but but I struggle with the middle school piece of it.
TEXT> Do you get the same type of notes in the middle school that you get for your students?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: No, there's no paper stuff sent home. I think they did away with its eliminated. We have to write.

[9740-466] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Excellent.
TEXT> So we have actually, deployed staff to  particularly the elementary open houses to get parents logged in to the parent portal and help them set  up their account and access that. So we will continue that practice. But I'm, I think that it sounds like there's an opportunity to do more in terms of parent training on how to access the portal. I'm just thinking out loud. I think I'm wondering if it would be helpful to even. We've done some. Video recordings of how to do some things, sort of to videos that we've been able to create. I'm wondering even if something like that, if it doesn't already exist, which it may, I access the portal through my for my child, through my school lens, my school login so I, I don't right? I have to sheepishly admit I haven't actually access the parent portal myself because I just I know my way in and I used that way. So there could be a video that already exists. But if there's if there's not, we can work on creating that as an avenue for people as well, because we have had staff at open houses to help people get on. And, and we'll continue that practice. But just, how to use it on different platforms as well. Your phone, your iPad, whatever it might be.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But the Carolinas point. Rebecca, I don't think it's just Rebecca Zulu I, I bet there are others. And so I think it would be I think it would be

[9740-480] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Which is one thing, or the app on the.
TEXT> Or the app on the phone,  right? To me, the second major takeaway is not necessarily the icon represented on the report card, but what that icon means in relationship to student learning. So it is if I have a not yet proficient on April 18th for my student in their chemistry class, what does that mean? Does it mean that I need to kick them in the butt because they're not doing their work, and I need to make sure that they're on top of their game? Or does it mean that they're not expected to be proficient in that particular standard on April 18th? They will be on April 26th, though, so I need to make sure that I know on April 26th that I need to check back. And so it's more of that relationship of what that icon on the report card or the ongoing report means in relationship to where a student should be at that given point in time in the learning process.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well.

[9740-484] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Jason Benware: Be awesome if there was a way to signify not yet proficient, but on track. I mean, you know, that would be really.
TEXT> It's interesting you bring that up because we have actually had that internal conversation about,  changing the language slightly to say not yet proficient, but on track to be proficient using that exact example. So so to me, that's the second major takeaway. It's not as much that it's not an A anymore, it's just whatever the icon is. Even if it was a shamrock on there, we don't know what that icon means in relationship to my child's learning to know when I need to intervene or not as a parent or caregiver or guardian.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I think you're spot on with your takeaways. Yes.

[9740-487] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Jason Benware: Sounds good.
TEXT> So to me, with that understanding in mind, at this point in time, I think we need to do some more internal work around. Okay, so what are we going to do to address the curriculum piece, which is the what is the icon mean in relationship to student learning.  And then come back not May 2nd, but come back, with some thinking on that and some problem solving. And then the technology pieces  I feel are a little bit more concrete to address because it could it could be just a tutorial video posted on the website. And then we talk about it here, a presentation here, access at the schools training sessions at the schools. Those are more  tangible solutions  and  pretty. Pretty easy to pull together.  And then as we get further down the road, we can revisit and say, okay, we need now that those two things are somewhat resolved or maybe they're not resolved, what are our next steps?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Agreed.

[9740-559] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Steve' [470, 557, 835, 883] | 2018-04-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Steve. And then Mike.
TEXT> Just a quick question. This is a presumptive question. Following up with what Frank was asking about in regards to correlating with Newport schedule. I assume that's utilizing the tech center over there so that that's proper. So I think as far as the calendar goes right now, I think it's great, but I think we should try to make sure we're in line with Newport. So I think I would request that we verify that information or find out what their timetable is to approving their calendar before. I'm willing to to do that, because I think we need to utilize the ability to make those schedules work well for the for the students, if it's possible.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Well, I will share with you. I think that's that's honorable and we certainly would do that. But, there have been times when that has not happened on the other

[9740-589] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers superintendent's report after 'Superin | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Say that again.
TEXT> Sure, sure. In the the collective bargaining agreement, there were $2,000. Every administrator has $2,000 per year. And the 2000 1000 of the 2000 can be used to help offset student loans. They're saying, such as the administrator who has an advanced degree is not taking a course. But they can take that 100 for the student loan, but they're not taking a course. There's a thousand.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Because the other 1000 is typically used for an approved academic course.

[9764-0] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> 
TEXT> In approximately 94%. So it's a it's a great compliment to  Stevens High School and to our students and to the community about the importance of being in school and attending school. A remarkable change from six years ago and very, very proud and pleased. I will tell you that the middle school and elementary school are also very vigorous to to work on attendance,  and perhaps we can have a future discussions with that. But it's a far cry from where we were a few years ago, and  I'm very pleased with that. I'm also very pleased to tell you that the Claremont School District now has an athletic trainer.  Yesterday, Allison  Purdue joined  our staff.  Miss Perdue, her position is possible through the collaboration with the Valley Regional Hospital. It's Valley regional hospital. Peter Wright, CEO, as well as the  staff of the Valley Regional Hospital, especially the director of ancillary services, doctor of physical therapy. Laura Hagley has been working closely with Pat Berry, Doug Beaupre and myself. And because of that, the athletic trainer will coordinate with our athletic director and have services available to our student athletes. And that went into effect yesterday and for the entire  school year, going forth into 2019.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: As you recall, there was budget reductions and compensation for the performance of this services by the Valley Regional Hospital athletic trainer will be $27,000. That's the amount of money

[9764-1] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: closely with Pat Berry, Doug Beaupre and myself. And because of that, the athletic trainer will coordinate with our athletic director and have services available to our student athletes. And that went into effect yesterday and for the entire school year, going forth into 2019.
TEXT> As you recall, there was budget reductions and compensation for the performance of this services by the Valley Regional Hospital athletic trainer  will be  $27,000. That's the amount of money budgeted. And so we are able to have an athletic trainer of this caliber,  because of Valley Regional Hospital working with this as a partner. And so it speaks again about the, the, the importance of, of a school district working with  the city partners to benefit our students. And what's also going to be a benefit is that  we have a doctor of  physical therapy who will be on site periodically throughout the year at no charge to assist any students and and when necessary, will be  on site at designated times to make referrals. Student athletes can often times,  ignore their physical problems because of the because of the fear of of losing their place in the team and not being able to compete. So our goal is to assist them and to have a connection with the Valley Regional Hospital so they can return to the athletic field or to the court.  Sooner than than  would be the case in the past. So we did have a lapse of services with Valley Regional Hospital, excuse me, with the athletic  trainer. And that position  is is  in place.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And Alison Purdue met with Doug yesterday and we are synchronizing our schedules. She will not be here full time, but she her schedule will depend upon the sport and

[9764-2] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: can return to the athletic field or to the court. Sooner than than would be the case in the past. So we did have a lapse of services with Valley Regional Hospital, excuse me, with the athletic trainer. And that position is is in place.
TEXT> And Alison Purdue  met with Doug yesterday and we are synchronizing our schedules. She will not be here full time, but she her schedule will depend upon the sport and the times that there is competition. So it's it's a it's very positive and very pleased. And again, thank you to  Valley Regional Hospital for continuing to be supportive of our students. This afternoon,  I learned late this afternoon that Senate Bill 193, the Education Savings Account Bill, also known as Belcher Bill, was sent to interim study in the House by a vote of 170 259. That would mean that Senate Bill 193, the Education Savings Account Bill, which you've been receiving a great deal of information.  Has been put away for the time being. However, I learned recently, within the past hour, Christine Downey, who is our curriculum specialist here at Stevens High School. She also serves on the Goshen School board. And there are elected officials tonight at the Goshen School board. And they were telling the school board that though the elected officials who are indicating that those who were in favor of the bill or working right now to bring the bill back to another boat and rally those elected officials that were absent to pass it, this vote could happen tomorrow.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So I am not telling you that Senate Bill 193 is going to be approved, but I am telling you that we thought it was this afternoon done and put

[9764-5] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: only health care a child receives on. On the date is Wednesday, May 9th. It happens to be School Nurse Appreciation Day. School nurses are oftentimes overlooked on Teacher Appreciation Day as they are not teachers, but their special day does fall within that week.
TEXT> So I'm going to make a special note to thank each one of our school nurses for the work they do. The wellness of our students and our staff can't be  understated, and our nurses certainly are vital to the health and well-being of those in our schools. So,  special thanks and recognition to our school nurses, and I will keep you up to date informed about Senate Bill 193 when a decision is made in Concord. Thank you.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Thank you.

[9764-30] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Go forward. Jason.' [51] an | 2018-05-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: Go forward. Jason.
TEXT> Here's the policy as proposed by Stephen Horsey. Procedure for prevention and management of head lice in schools. Claremont School District's head lice. No net policy was designed to engage the parents and community, and the government of Claremont Schools apply a three pronged approach to head lice infestation management, which include one community education, two regularly scheduled screening, and three temporary dismissal from school until all lice and eggs are removed. So, number one, community education a everyone in the community who is responsible for the well-being of our children should have a basic understanding of head lice epidemiology and safe and effective treatment measures. Be at the beginning of each school year a kindergarten registration or I'm sorry, at kindergarten. And for students entering during the school year. The school provides parents with information about headlights and the school's head lice. No NIT policy c provide the school staff with information about head lice and the school policy. D information about head lice and the school's policy should be available on the school's website. Create opportunities to educate the community, such as information booths at school events and articles and school publications and fliers. F promote community participation and awareness by properly informing all parents when there is an outbreak of head lice, a sample letter might look like this a case of head lice has been reported in your child group.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Head lice continue to be one of the most prevalent communicable childhood diseases among children, and outbreaks are possible whenever and wherever children gathered. Please screen your child regularly and

[9764-31] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Go forward. Jason.' [51] an | 2018-05-02
PREV> Jason Benware: and articles and school publications and fliers. F promote community participation and awareness by properly informing all parents when there is an outbreak of head lice, a sample letter might look like this a case of head lice has been reported in your child group.
TEXT> Head lice continue to be one of the most prevalent communicable childhood diseases among children, and outbreaks are possible whenever and wherever children gathered. Please screen your child regularly and notify us immediately if head lice or their nets lice eggs are detected. For those of you of you who do not know how to check your child for head lice, who welcome the opportunity to teach you working together. Help protect all of the children, including your own. Thank you for your cooperation. So that's number one. The second part. Regular screening and early detection. A routine school wide head lice screenings will be held at the beginning of school and after school vacation periods, providing families prior notice of such events. This encourages families to check their child's children's heads and, when detected early, offers the best opportunity for successful treatment. Be screeners must be properly trained by the school nurse. C use new six inch applicator sticks for each student screen. Be professional. Maintain confidentiality. E verify findings using a microscope if uncertain. F if screening is positive for lice or nits. Discuss findings in private. Extremely takes place in the classroom. Wait until finished and call to help practice okay. Number three temporary dismissal of the student. A notification of parents. Student will wait in health or main office until dismissal. Two parents.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Show parent findings of laws. Provide information on lice treatment and schools. No nit policy, and then emphasize the importance of the manual removal of lice and niche, and the

[9764-32] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Go forward. Jason.' [51] an | 2018-05-02
PREV> Jason Benware: lice or nits. Discuss findings in private. Extremely takes place in the classroom. Wait until finished and call to help practice okay. Number three temporary dismissal of the student. A notification of parents. Student will wait in health or main office until dismissal. Two parents.
TEXT> Show parent findings of laws. Provide information on lice treatment and schools. No nit policy, and then emphasize the importance of the manual removal of lice and niche, and the procedure for the student to return to school. See below, which is the next thing to see which is B return of student to school student may return to school and free of both lice and eggs, which are nits. Parents will transport you into school and will wait while the school nurse or principals designee checks the students for lice and or eggs. If lights or nits are found, parent will transport student home for further treatment is indicated. Even if there are no nits or lice present. Remind the parent to continue to check daily for two weeks. There are practical approach readmitted children who parents have done an excellent job of nit removal, but may have missed a single nit. This, and it should be removed immediately. A step that both supports the no net policy and allows the child to return to class. And that's the entirety of it. Thoughts? I. I, I see pretty comprehensive  I, I and this is I know it's a sample letter, although I don't think I would necessarily use the term. Yeah. Come on in. Yep. My wife. I'm not sure I would use the necessarily use the term childhood disease for head lice epidemic, but it's not really a disease.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: It's.

[9764-37] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Carolyn' [73],[148],[198];  | 2018-05-02
PREV> Jason Benware: that, it is communicable, but it's more of a infestation. It was just, you know, just that's one thing that popped out at, I guess. Here's I guess my question is of the rest of the board, how do you feel about this? Anybody? Carolyn.
TEXT> I, I really feel bad for a family. That, takes the time and tries to their children. And they are. Infected, and then they go through the whole process, and the child is sent back to school, and, has 1 or 2 minutes left and the whole thing reoccur to occur. That really is troublesome. And I was reading through our policies now, and, I think that I would go along with this with changing some of the wording in the letter I'm concerned about. But the outcome of that is that should be the flag that going to do the job correctly the first time, in my opinion. Right.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: For sure.

[9764-45] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Go forward. Jason.' [51] an | 2018-05-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: get the the families involved in the treatment so that we don't have the continued problem because what I, what I feel personally, as a parent and what I've seen, it, it seems to happen over and over because we're not getting to the source.
TEXT> So as a parent, we've dealt with this on a couple of occasions. Once this year, once when he was younger. It's very expensive. Economically. Well into the hundreds of dollars. If you have a family of four that needs to get treated, and if you did a sort of analysis of the whole idea of, you know, if I affect one person and then they affect one person each, and all of a sudden you start to spread that web, what you start to notice is it's a multi  problem. But let me say this, even though I understand it's it's a pain and it's it's creepy. And people emotionally just I mean lice or gross I mean people just don't like them obviously. I'm going to just play the devil's advocate for a second and just ask this question. So the the kids who have those problems and the parents are having a hard time treating them, and it's it's happens over and over again. And the fact is, is that that some of those kids are probably the kids. I can't afford to miss school as it is. I'm not saying all of them. I mean, because everybody, everybody gets lice. But I guess my issue is, is if a parent is not good at what they're doing,  how long can you deny a kid education because of it?
NEXT> Jason Benware: And, so, so even though I, I think a no net policy would be good, I just want to put some thought into that. To that. What can we do

[9764-47] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Mike' [96]; 'Michael patron | 2018-05-02
PREV> Jason Benware: that can you actually do? That's just a question. I don't know if you can answer it, Steve. I'm just throwing it out there that it's something we need to consider as well. Yeah. Mike. And to that point, you know, part of what I.
TEXT> Said. The story that I've heard for some people is that the expense of it as well. So there are families obviously in this area that came out before, maybe the treatment is free, but you like it still go to the library not to wander and throw their pillows and things in the the big utility. So that's a added expense. So the expense behind it for some families is it's really tough when they're trying to put food on the table. And then I get that it needs to be dealt with. They get that. So so Jason's point is also looking at how long. So these kids could be could miss school because they chew up the couple minutes. You know,  I don't know how we deal with that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Steve Michelle had her handle. Honestly.

[9764-59] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: recommends and what they recommend is not always welcomed. But there are two things. The school district has a protocol. We don't send children home, and we have that protocol based on the academy, American Academy of Pediatricians and other organizations. And we do communicate.
TEXT> We try to support parents. I think you're right. Some parents are very vigilant and some parents are not vigilant. I've been told by the nurses that many times the reoccurring cases are because the initial case was never remediated, because, as you said, Steven, it takes work. If not, just wash with some shampoo and you're done. But the one thing that I just want to close with, the reason I gave you this information, I look for information also that really supported a no net policy, and I couldn't find that. But I provided information with the assistance of our school nurses, just so informed decisions could be made. But there are two things I just want to add to this conversation. A child with head lice infestation is likely to have had it for a month or more before it is discovered, so. So he or she should remain in class but discouraged from close had had contact. Common sense should prevail when deciding how contagious an individual child may be. A child with a hundred versus a child with tour live nits. The best thing to do, maybe to notify the parents of all the children in the index index classroom. Encouraging that all student be checked. You can go that route. But what's important, though is that a child's. According to the medical profession, a child's head lice is noticed long after the child has been infested.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The other thing that's important study of tens of thousands of children about a decade ago. Reported that schools with no policies showed no fewer cases of lice than those

[9764-73] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Carolyn Towle: They're not sent home under any circumstances.
TEXT> My what? I have been told that there are certain cases where the student is so uncomfortable that it is in the best interests of the student to be sent home and have the parent make some immediate intervention. Okay, that happens very rarely. So the world is in black and white. There is some gray.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: And when they returned to school, they just returned to school.

[9764-80] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Go forward. Jason.' [51] an | 2018-05-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I have no data about head lice with our teachers.
TEXT> At the present time when we have correspondence home about, checking and procedures for lice removal and getting rid of lice that's been usually sent home in in a mail or not in the mail or, but in like, the kids, backpacks essentially. Right. Or are we able  to use that robo collar to make periodic phone calls to all parents involved? Because I'm pretty certain there's quite a few of those things that go home and backpacks that never get seen. I know that most people still use the telephone and they'll answer a telephone.  So, perhaps once a month getting a robo call saying, hey, there's some head lice at the schools. You may want to check your kids. That might. You know, that's a relatively quick solution to, you know, just putting it into people's minds, because I can tell you from my own experience, I didn't even think about the head lice until I saw my kids scratching their head. If I had maybe been. Yeah, be more vigilant and check them more often. That might have been different. So, maybe our reliance on information getting home with kids is, is a little more optimistic than it should be. Yes, of course.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: We. My son receives home and electronic e-mail from the Nurse Within nurses. Monthly newsletter, and there's been information in that around. How to check the lights this year. It's

[9764-85] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the absence of Chair F | 2018-05-02
PREV> Jason Benware: That because if it was like a district wide thing, that would be pretty cool.
TEXT> She does a monthly nurses. I think it's monthly. I could be wrong, and I apologize if I am, but a nurse's letter, talking about things like lies, cold care, health, wellness, all sorts of topics. I don't know if it's not possible to. So I'm just going to weigh in because. I have. A. Few questions or ideas or, thoughts on all of this. And I think for me personally, it's such a tricky and complicated topic. I say in both ways, depending on, you know, the time of day or what I think about it or, you know,  I, I always go back and forth because I can see  both sides very clearly. I think that we as a school board, need to figure out what we're going to do. And, I do believe that there has to be some sort of compromise somewhere. I mean, we need to think about the people who have. We also need to think about parents who, do keep their kids home and do take care of their kids and do work hard to get rid of, get rid of the headlights and the nits.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just think that we need to take everybody into consideration. So that's one thing I want us to think about. I think that there's been some really good ideas

[9764-88] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (author of the proposed no-nit head lice | 2018-05-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: there would be a decrease in headlights. If they're if it maintained the same, I would think that we would need to make sure that we were diligent in gathering information to see if this was even working, you know, because that is the point.
TEXT> I just had. This is more of a statement. The the role of a school is to educate, and we have to be mindful  of everybody's child getting an education.  At some point, the school's responsibility to play parent needs to end. And I think this is one of those situations where children, like my children,  are now disrupted in their educational life. They're getting treated until ten, 11:00 at night trying to come out vice. So there is penalties being paid by a lot of people because of other people's inability to do their job. And at some point we as a society need to take a stand and rely on the educational system to educate the children and not play parent.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Stephen. Just be. Advocate for that.

[9764-93] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (author of the proposed no-nit head lice | 2018-05-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: If if we're playing devil's advocate, if we're doing the flip side here, if the school's duty is to educate kids, they should be at school getting education, not if they're not caring for, then we're not telling parents how to take care of headlines.
TEXT> The argument to that, though, is, is that why should one child's education be disrupted due to the fact that one parent isn't doing their responsibility? Why should it now become not just one child that's disrupted their education? It's now two child. It's now three. It's now for next thing you know, we're getting letters saying that there's a whole classroom that has an issue. At what point do we put the brakes on in, prioritize the education of the child versus the one child or one family that can't hold their responsibility?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Michel had your hand up.

[9764-100] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Emily: I also have another question. I don't know if you can answer, but how much power do the school nurses have in the treatment of lice? Would it be possible for them to treat it if parents don't know how?
TEXT> I do know that the school nurses  are available and provide medical assistance and keeping communication with the children's parents, but school nurses are not going to be treating a child without the parent being aware of it.
NEXT> Emily: I had something else to say, but I forgot. Oh. I have a question for my dad, actually. Do you, in your policy, do you have a goal for finding

[9764-102] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (author of the proposed no-nit head lice | 2018-05-02
PREV> Emily: something else to say, but I forgot. Oh. I have a question for my dad, actually. Do you, in your policy, do you have a goal for finding the source of the head lice, the student that mainly has it, or mixing the problem altogether?
TEXT> It's one of those situations. It's lice. You don't necessarily. You're not going to catch the source right out of the gate. The goal is, is to try to prevent as much as infestation as possible so that there's less students distracted, less staff distractions, because all the distractions just add up. They pile up. I mean, whether it's a parent calling Doctor Goodwin  or calling Miss Lewis, for example, because their child, they found lice. Those times are, are are being used on a distraction because of this parasite, as far as I'm concerned. And we're concerned about costs, but we feel calls about it. We're talking about it today. Parents are talking about it out in the public forums. So I mean, there's multiple levels of this problem in there. It's an increasing distraction down to the student to the staff. So the goal is to try to eliminate the distraction and try to contain it if we can.
NEXT> Emily: You mentioned levels. Does that include school levels? Because I know from my experience, mainly elementary schools get it, whereas middle school and high school kids aren't as prone to

[9764-108] Don Churchill |  | 2018-05-02
PREV> Don Churchill: the toes, all these, the two I've been involved in, there's grant programs available. So in the past, one of the nurses had actually, requested funds to buy kits to be able to give to some of the families who they knew couldn't afford it.
TEXT> So that's also an option. I'm sure no PTO would turn that down. I also think that,  the lack of treatment from parents, I understand it's expensive, and I, I'm not a single parent, so I don't know what that's like. But I'm sure for some people it's really difficult. But I think, you know, going back to what I've heard a lot, it's the ripple effect. And it is extremely frustrating. You know, there's there's a lot of things that I noticed that happen in the community that, you know, we don't benefit from because we don't need to. And I think this is one of those things where,  you know, yes, I understand it's expensive, but it has to be done. I think it's a child welfare issue. If kids are not being treated and their sent back to school, you know, if you have children who are just repetitively coming back to school with it, they're itching. It's uncomfortable. It's not it's not healthy for them. And I think at some point, you know, it is a child welfare issue, especially for the the poor kids that are repetitively getting it.
NEXT> Don Churchill: The ripple effect to, you know, it's it's frustrating for me to go into a classroom and see, you know, the little T hooks with the coats next to each

[9764-109] Don Churchill |  | 2018-05-02
PREV> Don Churchill: are just repetitively coming back to school with it, they're itching. It's uncomfortable. It's not it's not healthy for them. And I think at some point, you know, it is a child welfare issue, especially for the the poor kids that are repetitively getting it.
TEXT> The ripple effect to, you know, it's it's frustrating for me to go into a classroom and see, you know, the little T hooks with the coats next to each other. And, you know, that's that would be very frustrating for me if my son came home and said, you know, so-and-so shares my coat hook. And they they were just sent back to class because the kids also they don't have filters they share with their with the other students. So while the other thing about being picked on,  I don't necessarily think that having kids pulled out of class and being sent home, is going to make that any different than if they're sent back to the classroom. I think if you know, the other kids know, they know, and, you know, they just have to know that it's not okay to tease them. And, and I know that that's a big issue as well. I think when you're talking about the medical professionals, I understand that, it is highly contagious. However, it is not known to cause illness and things like that. However, I, I'd be curious to know how many of those medical professionals have had to come home with their kids and have to treat them.
NEXT> Don Churchill: You know, and I also would be fine if you sent my child home. And I will tell you that I would not send my child to school until I

[9764-114] Mimi Ryan |  | 2018-05-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So.
TEXT> Take no the granite salt. But my main concern is keeping kids out of school. Because especially with elementary, that's where they learn a lot of their basic skills, like reading, writing, math. And if we if we keep kids out of school, as someone set up there for, let's say, half a year because their lice won't go away or they're had to keep being itchy, those skills will not be. They're going to be behind their classmates, and that will be a gap  that'll be very hard for those students to make up because as we know,  our population, Claremont allow the kids struggle. You guys are aware of that as members of the board and as parents in the community, they struggle. And so I think keeping the kids out of school  is not the correct solution. I understand the frustration, but I think that having them stay out of school would be extremely detrimental to their educational process long term. And yes, life is an issue at the high school as far as I know. But if you keep them out of school for half a third grade and then what happens? They don't get those skills and then it's a constant trying to catch up. And I it's I think that's unfair to the kid to be honest.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Sure, sure Eileen. Love it. Board to yes, it is a high school problem as well. The. Issue here, as far as the policy

[9764-136] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Carolyn' [73],[148],[198];  | 2018-05-02
PREV> Unidentified: that says kids have to stay out of school, that we have legal grounds to keep homeless students out and have lights. So I'm confirming that for us, because that information may change where you choose to go with a policy is federal Trumps local?
TEXT> My my comment to that would be the emphasis is not for these kids to stay out of school. I just.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's not what.

[9764-138] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Carolyn' [73],[148],[198];  | 2018-05-02
PREV> Unidentified: That's not what.
TEXT> I say. But and I'm concerned about that being the over whelming thought. I mean, before when I,  I wanted to know  about the children that are being home when they are reentered the school is the nurse checking them before they enter. And, you know, there's things in this policy that need to be tweaked. So our goal is not to keep these children home. That's not the goal.
NEXT> Unidentified: So that's not what I was. I was just saying that there's that piece of legal ease that we just you would want to know before we moved forward. Right.

[9764-144] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Jason Benware: would. Separate out a large. Group of. Kids from, from being educated. But if there is a smattering or a handful of real problem cases, then I think we should be able to put something into the policy that allows us to deal with that.
TEXT> Thank you. Rebecca. There's also the hippo laws, which which prevent public bodies from having access to information about students so that that's somewhat of a challenge. Tonight in the agenda, school board policy, subcommittee meeting dates.  Jason, Ben. Where Rebecca Zullo and Steven volunteered to serve on the subcommittee. Perhaps tonight. We identify. I have some dates for you to consider when we get to that item. And that perhaps that could be one of the first items of business for the subcommittee.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So I feel like we have,

[9790-24] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2018-05-16
PREV> Lexi Grenier: the Stevens High School gymnasium. Post-grad will be. I'm so excited for post-grad. We'll be right after graduation from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m.. Leading into the next day. And then the alumni parade and banquet will be on June 9th, which is a Saturday.
TEXT> And seems will be touring the high school this Friday from 1 to 2:00 with National Honor Society students as their guides. Miss Berry will be talking with them about next year's trip to Washington, D.C., which is planned for the first week in April 2019.  We have a P testing going on in this very room.  It happened last week. I took a test last week and it went pretty well. We have a few tests going on this week and hopefully those are going well for the students. But yeah. So,  a little sports update. The Stevens varsity baseball team has won a total of six games.  Stevens JV, JV baseball team has won a total of four games. Stevens varsity softball has won a total of ten of their games.  Stevens, day B softball has won three games. Stevens girls varsity tennis has won one game and hopefully another one since there had another match.  So keep up the good work to our athletes and congratulations on your wins. And that's it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[9790-29] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives Superintendent's report [39]; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: content, mostly training programs for residents and inmates. He says that it was working with Josh Malloy and his willingness to translate their proposal and give Derek questions to ask them, as well as consider other tech solutions that could save us even more money.
TEXT> He just cannot express his appreciation and what he said closing was this. I love the partnership and appreciate Josh Malloy, his attitude and willingness to help. It's going to save taxpayers several thousand dollars each year and more importantly, provide us with Brian Batts broadband speeds that are that are orders of magnitude faster than what we have right now. So this is a classic example of of community outreach. Classic example of working in partnership with our community. And that being said, I would also like to share with you correspondence from Valley Regional Hospital. Jenna, that's a tell. Who is the art instructor at Bluff Elementary School?  We received a very nice email from Robin Casey, senior director of development of Community Engagement, Valley Regional Hospital. I wanted to reach out and thank you for your student art submission for our first community art celebration event that took place this past week. There were many students art exhibits that are now  in place at Valley Regional Hospital that will remain there  until early July. Please thank your students for us to. Their work was truly heartwarming and we are thrilled. They wanted to take part. So going to Valley Regional Hospital, there are several student artworks  from our elementary school. Bluff Elementary School another example of our school district working with our community partners  in this collaborative way.  You all know that we had a very successful senior luncheon today.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That information will be shared with you as board members after it is. We'll also include prior years of comments so you can see what prior high school seniors have

[9790-33] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives Superintendent's report [39]; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: go toward the workplace. And last but not least, I'm going to be passing around a booklet. This booklet was produced by the Bluff Elementary School. It represents the students of Deborah Bates third grade class Animals around the world, a collection of informative reports.
TEXT> Each student in Deborah Bates class wrote  and informative report  and there were pictures. And this just gives one example of what our students are doing. And I thought you would like to to look at this firsthand. However, this is Deborah Bates copy. All the other students parents received a copy. So I would ask that you return this to me this evening. But another reason to be proud of the Claremont School District. Thank you for.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. I'm not. I'm. Oh. I'm sorry. Questions for the superintendent. Steve. And then Carolyn and then Michelle.

[9790-39] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Carolyn' [56],[265],[543];  | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Another one. My  second question is,  I was so happy to hear about the Valley regional art.  And certainly  it makes it a little more appropriate for the children to go in and look around the hospital and not be so scared, but say, you know, their portraits or whatever they've done are on the wall. At our last  meeting, two times before, we talked about celebrating Valley Regional in a different manner. And I, I just don't want that to go by the wayside. So I'm bringing it up again.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9790-68] Karen Collison | Stevens High School National Honor Society advisor (named 'Mrs. Collis | 2018-05-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Lee and the crew.
TEXT> The second,  item I'd like you to look at is on the second page, the last two pages.  That's a newsletter that will go out to the  parents of the National Honor Society members if this passes tonight. But the proposal is there on the second page. We have done this for a few years now, and  it's called shantytown. It's a collegiate movement. Lots of college campuses do this  to bring about the,  awareness  of poverty and homelessness and  what we can do about it. So this is just our attempt to to bring that awareness full front for the high school kids.  So what we do is we get donations,  pledges to spend the night in the soccer field. Regardless of the weather. Last year, it was pouring. No. That's okay. Last year was pouring, and we stayed out there anyway in the tent. And, And then the kids.  We have a special bond with the soup kitchen anyway, and we go there every week, and and so we want to  include them with us. And I've talked to Cindy Stevens, who is the director of the Claremont Soup Kitchen, and she  welcomes us with open arms.
NEXT> Karen Collison: What we do is we come here to the soccer field on Sunday afternoon. We'd get their tents all set up. We then walk to the Claremont community or Claremont

[9790-69] Karen Collison | Stevens High School National Honor Society advisor (named 'Mrs. Collis | 2018-05-16
PREV> Karen Collison: special bond with the soup kitchen anyway, and we go there every week, and and so we want to include them with us. And I've talked to Cindy Stevens, who is the director of the Claremont Soup Kitchen, and she welcomes us with open arms.
TEXT> What we do is we come here to the soccer field on Sunday afternoon. We'd get their tents all set up. We then walk to the Claremont community or Claremont soup Kitchen pass out or  do the meals there and then eat with them as well. After that, then we go to the high school where we'd watch a documentary,  with Courtney Porter. And then question answered, and then walk back up to our tents and spend the night in the tents. And then the kids would have to go to school the next morning without showers, without. Without fresh, clean clothes.  And they might have a better sense of what some of their classmates have to deal with on the on the daily. So,  and then the idea is that afterwards they would reflect on their experience and write that down in a journal that that I have for the National Honor Society. We'd have a porta potty and the police cruise around. They know we're here and we've never had a problem in the past. And it's it was sort of a bonding experience last, last year.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah. Okay. Yeah.

[9790-74] Karen Collison | Stevens High School National Honor Society advisor (named 'Mrs. Collis | 2018-05-16
PREV> Lexi Grenier: Was awesome.
TEXT> So and we, we raise money for the soup kitchen for local charities and for our own,  national dues, which are about $400. And I don't want to I don't want to hike up dues anymore for the kids. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions for Mrs. Coulson. And again, how many are there in the. It's just the National Honor Society kids.

[9790-96] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Thank you Pat' [560], 'Mrs. | 2018-05-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: Triad Music Honor Society, Stephen Ayers volunteers at the Soup Kitchen, Student Voice, she's the student up to the school board and organizer of our kickoff with NFL Fuel up to play 60 to get a breakfast cart and smoothie machine to provide free breakfast.
TEXT> She led the student walk out for school safety, ensuring the event was done with dignity as a dedication to the students who lost their lives in parkland, Florida. She was recognized by the superintendent and community members for her conscientious and sensitive approach to this issue, focusing on it as a unifying march for improvements. Lexi is proactive. She has reached out to administration to work with teachers to improve school culture, do public service announcements on bullying, school safety, and other issues of importance, both at Stevens as well as the community of Claremont. Lexi is an outspoken voice dedicated to improving her world and to being a model for her peers, leading a life as an agent of positive change and positivity. And for all those reasons, we feel she is the ideal candidate. This group agreed with us, and Lexi was chosen as their student to be honored. And today we miss day, pray and I,  under the ruse  of telling her that we were taking her to a conference about school boards,  and that they wanted to talk to her because she was a school board rep and get some feedback.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So she walked into this beautiful, event venue that was filled with pink balloons and pink napkins and women dressed in pink because they honor women. And today they honored

[9790-106] Tom Connor | Claremont attorney, Claremont school funding litigation (invited as 'M | 2018-05-16
PREV> Tom Connor: this body that voted to say, hey, look, education isn't just a nice thing to have. It's a it's a constitutional right, or it should be. And we're pitting poor towns against rich towns, old against young, those who have it, against those who don't.
TEXT> There's got to be a better way to do it. Because,  New Hampshire is one of the richest states in the United States, believe it or not, per capita. And yet we spend among the least  of all states  for state funding of of our kids education. And so we started it in 1989, and within two years, we a lawsuit was filed. Two years after that, Supreme Court ruled once, four years after that, the Supreme Court ruled again. It's been up and back up and down to the Supreme Court more than ten times, and we're ten for ten or whatever the number is. So the Lexie congratulations.
NEXT> John Tobin: Congratulations.

[9790-121] John Tobin | Attorney, Claremont school funding litigation, retired from New Hampsh | 2018-05-16
PREV> John Tobin: I go around and start to talk about this, I'm going to and I will in a few minutes, describe briefly what a lawsuit would look like and what the challenges are and the time, what the timeline is, which I know you won't like.
TEXT> But, it's really important that we, go at this again  in the public sphere. And what two issues are more important to talk about in our democracy than education, how we educate our kids and and what taxes we pay and how does that work? Those, I think, are core public issues, their core issues to debate and discuss in our democracy. We all need to do more of that. We need to do that with each other. You need to do that with other school boards and other city officials. We all really need to do it with the people who represent us in the legislature. They need to hear from us a lot about this. They need to think they're getting burned out and sick of it, and we're still talking about it. What is more important to talk about? We need to keep talking about it. So as I go around and,  and, talk about a funding case, I hope that all of you will just be very creative about how you make this part of your living democracy here, that you talk about it with your neighbors, that you write letters, that you write columns that you talk about with other school board members, that you, follow your state reps around and talk about it with them all the time.
NEXT> John Tobin: So with that, I got interested in this school funding case because the first ten years I was in New Hampshire, I was a legal aid lawyer in Berlin. And

[9790-122] John Tobin | Attorney, Claremont school funding litigation, retired from New Hampsh | 2018-05-16
PREV> John Tobin: your living democracy here, that you talk about it with your neighbors, that you write letters, that you write columns that you talk about with other school board members, that you, follow your state reps around and talk about it with them all the time.
TEXT> So with that,  I got interested in this school funding case because the first ten years I was in New Hampshire, I was a legal aid lawyer in Berlin. And I became and I, I knew a little bit about  property taxes, but not much. But  I had young kids, and I went to a  Berlin school board meeting to talk about the Berlin budget. And there I heard, expressed in ways that is still being expressed. There were older people on fixed incomes who cared about the schools, but they just couldn't afford to pay more taxes. And there were young people like me who wanted to make sure the schools were good for my kids.  And then I slowly realized that both sides were in this little box that the state had created, where the people in Berlin were struggling to reconcile something that was irreconcilable because it was beyond their control, because they didn't have enough property to raise the money without taxing people in a really high way. So that kind of got me inspired and to, to do this, and I've been very proud to be part of the the first go round with  the Claremont Coalition. Tom didn't shoot his own horn enough. He was the one that really got this going. He's the one that I think you were on the school board then, right?
NEXT> John Tobin: Or you had just been. And he's the one that went around to lawyers offices and, and for a couple of years tried to find people to work on this

[9790-141] John Tobin | Attorney, Claremont school funding litigation, retired from New Hampsh | 2018-05-16
PREV> Jason Benware: about the issue and bring it up to as many people as possible. Yeah. When you talk about spreading the tax across the whole state, essentially what you're referring to is sort of like the Vermont version of donor towns, essentially. I mean, realistically, yeah.
TEXT> I mean,  and I really try to stay away from that phrase because implicit in that phrase is that using the New Hampshire example that the people in Bedford have no responsibility for the kids in Claremont or Manchester, and that they're making a donation if some of their money goes. And I, I just think we need to stay away from that. What if the quite apart from the tax stuff, the court's decision is really eloquent about these are all our kids. We have a collective responsibility for all of these kids, and they even talk about how in society of today, mobile society, people move around. They don't just stay in Pittsfield or Claremont or Bedford. So,  I would resist falling into the donor town donor town trap and just say they're they're all our kids. We have responsibility for all of them. We have to deal with that as a state, and we need to figure out how to pay for it. And there's a wonderful book that came out recently called Our Kids by Robert Putnam, who's a he's the guy that wrote the book Bowling Alone. And he's basically making that pitch. As a society, we're neglecting our kids, and we need to take care of them all.
NEXT> John Tobin: And that's why he chose the title Our kids. Not your kids, not their kids, not those kids, our kids. So, I think we need to go back to your

[9790-142] John Tobin | Attorney, Claremont school funding litigation, retired from New Hampsh | 2018-05-16
PREV> John Tobin: wonderful book that came out recently called Our Kids by Robert Putnam, who's a he's the guy that wrote the book Bowling Alone. And he's basically making that pitch. As a society, we're neglecting our kids, and we need to take care of them all.
TEXT> And that's why he chose the title Our kids. Not your kids, not their kids, not those kids,  our kids. So,  I think we need to go back to your question. I guess what it would be would be and think about the rooms and meals tax. I live in Concord. Concord has lots of  restaurants and hotels and stuff. How would it how unfair would it be if Concord got to keep  all of that? Rooms and meals, tax and Bo, which is right next to it, that has very few of that stuff, had to pay for something important with what they could do in rooms and Neil's taxes, they'd have to have sky high rates. That's that's what we have here.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So so essentially just simplify I mean, and I'm, I'm not at all against it.

[9790-146] John Tobin | Attorney, Claremont school funding litigation, retired from New Hampsh | 2018-05-16
PREV> Jason Benware: assumption would be then what? What you would do is you'd do some serious mathematics and you would figure out what a standard tax rate would be that would go across the board. It would be a flat tax rate based upon value of home.
TEXT> Yeah. And it would be it would raise enough money to pay for all the things that the state tells you you have to do.  And then if you wanted to have the climbing wall or the swimming pool or whatever, you'd have to ask your local taxpayers to pay for that. And it would be,  you know, and that the court said,  it's up to you, legislature, to pick the tax you impose to pay for meeting this duty. But whatever tax you pick has to be the same rate across the state. And so right now we have this little statewide property tax that only pays for,  maybe a 10th or a 12th of the cost of education around the state.  We would need a true tax that paid for all of it. And, you know, one of the things about the current system that makes it confusing is that state tax is collected by the localities, so people don't even think of it as a state tax. So maybe it would be better to have it set out by the Department of Revenue. But that's a detail. That's a legislative thing. The Constitution says whatever tax you use, same rate across the state because this is a state duty to our kids.
NEXT> Tom Connor: Yeah. If I could just emphasize to that, one of the rulings is this is a state obligation. It's a fundamental right of all of our kids. They all have

[9790-147] Tom Connor | Claremont attorney, Claremont school funding litigation (invited as 'M | 2018-05-16
PREV> John Tobin: So maybe it would be better to have it set out by the Department of Revenue. But that's a detail. That's a legislative thing. The Constitution says whatever tax you use, same rate across the state because this is a state duty to our kids.
TEXT> Yeah. If I could just emphasize to that, one of the rulings is this is a state obligation. It's a fundamental right of all of our kids. They all have it equally, and it's a state obligation to pay for it, not the Cadillac, but more than 3600. So it's a state obligation to pay for it. The Constitution says, you know, you can't have a say. Even a higher rooms and meals tax in Concord than in Claremont. Or, you know, maybe there's a tax for roads or something that well, we're going to charge more in Claremont because they don't have enough money. I mean, so it has to be across the board. And if it was naked tax, the income tax would be across the board too. And by the way, we've never promoted an income tax. But fair to say, if there was an income tax that was dedicated solely  for education, then the vast majority of people, the vast majority of people in Claremont, and I don't know if anyone's ever done the numbers, would, at the end of the day, pay significantly less in overall taxes  when you take into account the property tax.
NEXT> Tom Connor: And whether it be, you know, there are a lot of rich people who come to New Hampshire because they know. And I'm not making a generalization, but, you know,

[9790-330] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (raised the cell phone item; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Jason Benware: you're walking to class. Am I right in that they say you shouldn't? While well headed to the bathroom during class? You can't while in the bathroom during class, you can't during the class you cannot when you're at the library, you cannot during advisory.
TEXT> No in student services now, during study halls and during assemblies. No, that's what this policy says. And in case a phone goes off in class, what should you do? Well, according to this, if your phone goes off well in your possession in class, it's going to be taken by the teacher and turned into an administrator. First offense phone will be returned to the student at the end of the day. Subsequent offense is a parent will be contacted and given the opportunity to pick the cell phone up at the end of the school day. Okay,  can they use their cell phone to video students, teachers, and activities only if they have permission to the teacher and of those who are videoing, you can't use it to record fights or any other activity. The school has not been pre-approved, and if you do that, you'll risk losing privileges  or have the phone taken away. So that's the policy. And as it sits, it sounds like it's relatively reasonable. Although I'd really be interested to know how it's being enforced and how it's working. So I think it would be good to do a survey of the teachers and the staff at the schools and find out their feelings about how these things are, and and I do know and I, I read both sides of the story.
NEXT> Jason Benware: It's not just the negatives. I understand that sometimes there are things that, teachers will use them as a tool for, for helping students learn as well. I'm just afraid

[9790-342] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Carolyn' [56],[265],[543];  | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: School there. I.
TEXT> I just want to reiterate a little bit of what Jason said, but with a couple other points.  I had some  outstanding seniors today at the luncheon at my table, and we actually talked about cell phone use. And there they had two issues. One, there was not a consistent policy.  From they'd go from one class to the next and there was a different, you know, way you had to have your cell phone or not have it. And they didn't know really what the policy was because some of the teachers actually asked them to research something during the class on their cell phones. So you can see, these kids said, we would like to know what the standard policy is.  And, you know, if there's a fluctuation, then then it's somebody else's job at that point. And that was their overall comment. So I would just like to bring that up for discussion.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I'd like to recommend that we review it, and revamp it whether we do it at our team meeting.

[9790-374] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Thank you Pat' [560], 'Mrs. | 2018-05-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: the workplace, in college, etc. so I'm torn. I'm very, very torn about the presence of these devices and how we we handle this at the high school level. And it's different than it should be at the middle school, in the elementary school level.
TEXT> I'm, I really seek feedback from everybody on this and guidance because it's not going away.  And I know that some teachers are reluctant to engage in that conversation with some students because to take a phone away from an addicted teenager is like taking crack away from a junkie.  And, and and they get violent sometimes and it's not pretty. So our some of our students are addicted to these devices and it is not healthy and it is impeding in their education. And yet many of our teachers are really coming to the fore and learning how to use them as technological devices to deliver curriculum and to enhance the the curriculum and the use of technology in their classroom. And so,  you know, there's there's so many elements to this conversation.  But our kids are distracted and the classroom does suffer, and teachers are spending a good portion of their time trying to navigate this. So I welcome the conversation.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you Pat. You're welcome.

[9790-380] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Thank you Pat' [560], 'Mrs. | 2018-05-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: in their classroom over those behaviors, just like any other behavior, just like any teacher may have a higher level of tolerance for what they will put up with, or the number of times they will ask a student to redirect or do something differently.
TEXT> And I think that speaks to the inconsistency that you heard from our students that some teachers are. There's the box, your phone goes in the box, and you can get it on your way out versus we're going to use it several times in my class today, and they have a trust level with their kids that they are going to when they're on it, they're going to be doing what they're supposed to be doing with it. But it's an enormous amount of energy to check 25 kids and to walk around that room and to make sure that what's on their screen is what you've asked them to look at. And so that's sometimes where the inconsistency happens. And students know they know how to they can text behind their back with one thumb and not misspell anything. I mean, you know, it's so trying to find who in that classroom is inappropriately using their device is also the other challenge.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So and the second part of my question is, do you all children have access to a cell phone in high school?

[9790-385] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Thank you Pat' [560], 'Mrs. | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: School.
TEXT> Counter a counter,  not argument to that, but a counterproposal to that. And Lexi shared this with me on our ride to Colby Sawyer today. Is she said that in some of her classes,  when there aren't enough laptops, there isn't enough other technology for everyone to get on and do something. It's with the cell phones. And so until we get to a point where we can be a 1 to 1 district and everyone has equal access to all technology in many, many classrooms, those cell phones are supplementing what we we can't financially currently provide for our kids technologically. And so that was another thing that I hadn't even thought about, that these cell phones are actually getting us where, you know, in our technology used than otherwise we'd have we'd be able to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Rebecca was next.

[9790-388] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (self-identifies 'Rebecca here' [252 | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: In a second.
TEXT> I just want to be very clear on where I stand. I would never advocate for my children to not have their cell phones at the middle or the high school level. I would advocate and follow through at home if my children didn't follow the rules at school, but my expectation is that their cell phone would be with them for a variety of reasons. And my other thought is, this is not a conversation where it's black and white. Either you have them or you don't. There are many variables that go into it, and I think that that's important that we not forget that. And my third, comment is,  my kids  are not going to have many things that other children have. And my I teach them that they need to put their big kid pants on.  You know, my son didn't have a cell phone in seventh grade or sixth grade  when all of his friends did. So I think it's just important to remember that life stinks sometimes, I know.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So vacating for the phones, taking away. I want to make that clear to you that I'm advocating for the kids that don't have phones. I mean, for the people

[9790-389] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Yes, ma'am' [780], 'Did that | 2018-05-16
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: that they need to put their big kid pants on. You know, my son didn't have a cell phone in seventh grade or sixth grade when all of his friends did. So I think it's just important to remember that life stinks sometimes, I know.
TEXT> So vacating for the phones, taking away. I want to make that clear to you that I'm advocating for the kids that don't have phones. I mean, for the people that get left out or get disturbed or  or can't concentrate because that's going on. That's what I'm advocating for.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[9790-395] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (raised the cell phone item; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> So I guess what I wanted to ask and I don't I'm not sure if you can answer this or not, but,  I know that the when the kids start the school year every year, they get a student handbook. Yes. And it's got this policy in it.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: We have not done paper copies in the last couple of years in order to reduce copying costs, etc.. So we tell students that they're online, but we don't give

[9790-402] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Thank you Pat' [560], 'Mrs. | 2018-05-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: them that autonomy. And when we we see a teacher on their cell phone themselves, that also is an issue when we walk past a classroom, it's flex time or even, you know, we're all even as adults, struggling with appropriate use of these devices.
TEXT> And that's a whole nother piece of the conversation as well. How are we modeling as adults? Usage of it in the school, in and out of the classroom? I had all my students come in freshmen and sophomores than juniors and seniors come in to watch a video for FaceTime. And if you have a chance to watch it, it's called Look Up and it's by it's a Under the Young Turks heading. And it's a, I think maybe eight minutes long. And it's done in a rhyme scheme, but it tells the story of what happens when your head is, is in a screen and not in the present, and what you miss in life. And I use that as an opportunity to talk to kids about being present. And when you look at that, that grid and where it says, you know, during transitions, shouldn't we have those conversations with our kids to say, yep, that's a good time to check and see if you got a text from your coach. You got four minutes to get from point A to point B, class A to class B, right? See if you got a text from your coach that your game got switched or canceled, or a text from mom or dad that they're picking you up or not picking you up, whatever. But what I prefer that you do in those four minutes is that you think about where you've been and where you're going.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: What do you need? And that you have a conversation with somebody that you're walking down the hall with and that your eyes are up and you're present? That's what

[9790-403] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Thank you Pat' [560], 'Mrs. | 2018-05-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: got switched or canceled, or a text from mom or dad that they're picking you up or not picking you up, whatever. But what I prefer that you do in those four minutes is that you think about where you've been and where you're going.
TEXT> What do you need? And that you have a conversation with somebody that you're walking down the hall with and that your eyes are up and you're present? That's what we would prefer. And that's a message that we're we're constantly trying to ingrain in our kids as a cultural piece.  So that's part of that education, you know, about the when and the where and the how. So I don't think I, I would not say that there are any teachers who are willfully not following the policy, but I've also had newer teachers who I've said come in the first six weeks, be tight, you know, be that that kind of  ogre for the first six weeks. Be really strict with your rules. They want to they want to have a different kind of friendlier atmosphere in their classroom. And now it's November. They're up to here. And now the phones get confiscated and confiscated and it's like, you know, oh, all of a sudden the phones are just coming down to the main office, like, you know, before you can. And so what happened? Well, I just couldn't take it anymore. I started taking the phones. I said, oh, and and how did that work out?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Well, no one's using their phones in my class anymore. I said, oh, you should have started that in September, you see? See, I told you so. But that's the

[9790-436] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Thank you Pat' [560], 'Mrs. | 2018-05-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: benefit of that starting in the earlier grades, because that's something in the last couple of years. But just to speak to the curricular aspects of how we, collectively use technology, not just cell phones, but technology in general has been has been introduced recently.
TEXT> So  and one further thing, I think here's a real, real opportunity for community engagement and conversations and forums. I know that when my kids were teenagers, they're  the apps that came out and the ways. Our kids were using phones. I didn't know about them. I learned about them through my students that I taught in the high school.  And there's something new every day that's coming out on phones and ways in which students are using them, both for good and for not so good. Educating parents. Most of the parents in this district are the ones paying that phone bill. Getting parents to feel empowered to be a part of that cyber world for their kids, whether it's their online computer, activity or their phone activity. It is for some, for some parents, it's a struggle. They don't know how to handle their teenager or they don't want to be invasive in that world. And yet, what we know is going on in those worlds can be very, very scary. And I engaging parents in that conversation and educating them about.
NEXT> Unidentified: What.

[9790-438] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Thank you Pat' [560], 'Mrs. | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: What.
TEXT> Some of our kids have access to. I think, would be really helpful because there's a lot to learn and it's changing every day.
NEXT> Unidentified: Parent forums. Yes. Yeah.

[9790-723] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [736],[910]; presen | 2018-05-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: had an impact. It it made a difference. And as we close that communication loop and let people know that then then those people will likely be more, likely to engage at the next opportunity because that they know that they can make a difference.
TEXT> And so, working on creating some sustainability with community and school engagement, working on each individual school, focus on particular activities to to think about engagement differently in their schools, to reach a larger portion of our school audience. And so I just wanted you to be aware of sort of where we're headed, how we're shifting things a little bit, how it connects to the work that you are doing as a board,  how it connects to our strategic action plan. And, that we will be  as a small committee reaching out and, and thinking about, how we can engage, a larger portion of our community to partner  around education in, across our community. And I think you'll see this, be a strong support mechanism as you tackle the fiscal responsibility goal that you have. And  as we tackle the funding inequities as we see them in our state, a strong engagement framework will help with with those efforts. So I just wanted to, kind of keep you in the loop of where we're headed with that next steps, and you'll be hearing more about this as we move forward. But this is an example of how we've been able to access outside grant sources to support work that we're doing internally, and to support moving our collective efforts for word  to have better outcomes for our students and for our community members.
NEXT> Unidentified: Great.

[9790-762] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [736],[910]; presen | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: All.
TEXT> Then all means all. And so  thinking about how can we partner with businesses and organizations across our community to better support the needs of our of our students and our schools? Because as our schools improve and as our students improve, our community improves.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So thank you.

[9799-275] Carolyn Towle | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont) (recognized 'Carolyn' [125],[383],[513] | 2018-05-10
PREV> Sara Lowe: Carolyn, you had a question.
TEXT> Rebecca just took the words out of my mouth, but I was thinking more of, having having somebody like,  Lee Stevens come down and work with the kids for the landscaping. And because they identify to what they've done as a goal,  they might keep an eye on it, too,  you know, and not walk over it and things like that. I just I just think we utilize our own manpower first.
NEXT> Nathan: Whatever it takes. I know it's been a years long problem. It's not just this year. And so it's not to call anybody out maintenance department or.

[9799-326] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity member; presides; answers 'Yes' when 'Lowe' i | 2018-05-10
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: No. Does that matter to anybody?
TEXT> Do you want me to do that? Sure. Okay. And and mind you, we looked at a variety of different schools, vision statements and  sort of took pieces and and bits from places. So,  upon graduation, students will have the academic and social abilities to actively apply their knowledge and skills to be ethically responsible citizens well equipped for success in their community, country and world. And then the mission statement piece and we did some looking at what's the difference between a mission statement and a vision statement, and how do those play into  the district goals and the superintendent roles and all those pieces. So it is our mission at SA six to provide a safe and supportive environment in which students are guided to be in becoming independent, self-directed, lifelong learners and responsible citizens. We strive to meet the unique needs of all students through a curriculum enriched by partnership with home and community.  And then  the I'll let you jump in with the  the areas of of goals.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yeah. So as far as superintendent goals, we came up with five areas of focus areas. One would be to establish and maintain a solid, respectful working relationship with the

[9828-7] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Mary Woodman: Michael. Michelle Pierce. Here. Carolyn. Tall here. And friends here.
TEXT> Okay. We have an agenda in front of us tonight.  I know that we don't have a student,  our student report tonight. That'd be one amendment to it. Doctor McGlynn, I do, please, if I could  request.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Roman numeral seven, a nomination of Claremont Middle School principal. If we could move that up. Before we get into discussion items, please.

[9828-20] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair asks 'Doctor McGlynn/Goodwin' [9], [65];  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Steven Horsky: Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you. And good evening.  On Saturday, June 16th, I'm going to be representing the SO6 at the Rural Pride 2018 Saturday event at the Visitor Center Green here in Claremont from 12 to to 4:00. This will be an opportunity to  provide support for a cross-section of different students.  We have a diverse population, as most communities do. The Claremont School Board in 2016 approved the Transgender and Gender Nonconforming Students Policy, and this policy requires that all programs, activities, and employment practices be free from discrimination based on sex, sexual orientation, and gender identity.  I'm very pleased and proud to represent all students, and I will be representing those students,  our students  who are transgender, gay, lesbian  at our six  Rural Pride event  Saturday on the 16th. There's quite a quite a series of different events going on, and  hopefully you can stop by  and attend. The last day of school in Claremont is June 13th, on June 14th because we had a snow day on March 13th. June 14th will be a professional development day for our teachers, previously scheduled for March 13th. And then June 15th will be the final teacher work day.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Students are leaving on the 13th. Professional development on the 14th. And then on the 15th. Teacher work day as we wrap up the school year. Looking ahead. June 20th.

[9828-21] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair asks 'Doctor McGlynn/Goodwin' [9], [65];  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: school in Claremont is June 13th, on June 14th because we had a snow day on March 13th. June 14th will be a professional development day for our teachers, previously scheduled for March 13th. And then June 15th will be the final teacher work day.
TEXT> Students are leaving on the 13th. Professional development on the 14th. And then on the 15th. Teacher work day as we wrap up the school year.  Looking ahead. June 20th.  The last Claremont school board meeting in June, the Stevens High School Scheduling Committee will be making a presentation to give you an update as to their progress  as they go forward with  continuing the work of asking a question, our current schedules, meeting the needs of our students, and what improvements can we make? This morning you receive the Saw six school board agenda.  I'm going to make a recommendation to the Unity School Board next week when I meet with them. So I'd like to make a recommendation to you as well. And Frank, I'm going to speak with Sarah. I'm going to recommend that Sarah connect with you, because the next six board meeting is August 23rd, and you have certain tasks with the administration  planning that can't wait until, in my recommendation, can't wait until August 23rd. So you need my my recommendation will be that the two chairs of Claremont and Unity  get together and identify some dates where you can do your work.  Because as I said, June 14th, August 23rd, I don't think June 14th you're going to be able to take care of business.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Citizens. Comments. Mr.. Thank you. I yourself and your ward, please.

[9828-23] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Steven. Ward two' speaking as  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Citizens. Comments. Mr.. Thank you. I yourself and your ward, please.
TEXT> Steven. Ward two.  I actually came here with a  purpose besides school board business. Hence why I'm now on the  parent side.  So in my, parent capacity, I would like to recognize the CMS band and chorus. I was present at their final concert of the year, and  for my daughter and many others, it was their last concert. Of junior high. I was able to see my daughter conduct for the first time, and it was the actual first piece played by the B band. I was also able to see an amazing performance  by the chorus of a piece from the Broadway musical Hamilton, as I understand it. My daughter's been listening to it, and, the performance of the CMS did blew away when I was hearing her play off YouTube. Not only was it the best performance I've ever seen from our children, it was also a change in spirit among the members of the band and chorus this year that was noticeable. Mind you, this is Mr. Smith's second year, and I can just tell you that there's been an incredible change in what I've seen in my three years so far at the middle school with the student.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: The work the children have put in must have been a daunting task, but their leadership has shown a new light for the CMS band and chorus, as the spirits

[9828-24] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Steven. Ward two' speaking as  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Steven Horsky: band and chorus this year that was noticeable. Mind you, this is Mr. Smith's second year, and I can just tell you that there's been an incredible change in what I've seen in my three years so far at the middle school with the student.
TEXT> The work the children have put in must have been a daunting task, but their leadership has shown a new light for the CMS band and chorus, as the spirits of these children was noticeably different than in past years. With that said, I would like to thank Mr. Thomas Smith for his dedication support of our children and I would like to ask Mr. Smith to you, please join me at the  podium, because my family has a donation of $105,  to support the CMS Band fund, and I would like him to speak as to what that is.
NEXT> Tom Smith: Thank you so much. That's super generous. Thank you so much, Steve. That's that's this is phenomenal. This is amazing. Thank you. So my name is Tom Smith. I'm the

[9828-26] Tom Smith |  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Tom Smith: on the instrument, you know, like the list goes on. So this I just decided that the number about $35. We'll sponsor a band kid for an entire year. They get a bands, t shirt, band, method book, box of reeds, whatever their instrument needs.
TEXT> It could be sticks,  mallets or  valve oil, whatever they need,  and that will supply them for the year. And  this is phenomenal. Thank you so much Steve. This really a Warrensburg heart. I had a few other  parents for me last night as well. So I think we're going to be able to really outfit a few of the kids who don't feel comfortable and really waves of communicating with me. And I try my best to connect with them, but they don't always feel like they're able to communicate that because they're still trying to figure that out. So this will be a great way to  initiate them into this awesome opportunity they have  here in Claremont. So thank you Steve. That's that's thank you.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Thank you thank you. Really appreciate your every comment.

[9828-65] Frank Romeo | Nominee and incoming principal, Claremont Middle School; currently vic | 2018-06-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: if you've or how I don't know how to phrase it. What's what? How do you think you can help Claremont when it comes to bullying? Because I think that you probably heard quite a bit, you know. So what are your thoughts on that?
TEXT> Sure. One where I am currently now,  I'm in charge of discipline. We're a k to 12 school.  So I'm in charge of discipline, but we also have  a planning room coordinator that's that works with bullying, harassment, zero tolerance.  I think it's about educating not only our students, but our community  and our parents so that we using the same language that we're sending the same message that we all understand. It's all of our responsibility to kind of look out.  And again, it's education of everybody, and we have to make sure that nothing is too small. One of the things currently that I want, I'm talking with staff, I'm talking with family members. Nothing is too small to report.  Something that you may seem or probably in the past, a simple push or a comment. We may have just brushed aside or said, oh, that's being this. But, today with cyberbullying, with all the things that exist, nothing is too small.  And we need to investigate, we need to educate  and we need to be proactive, not reactive.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you.

[9828-112] Paulette Gerald | Outgoing Claremont Middle School principal, leaving for the Concord Sc | 2018-06-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Two cohorts.
TEXT> Of students.  This year's current eighth grade students. And,  also, they added  our grade seven students.  Gear Up is gaining early awareness and readiness for undergraduate at undergraduate programs. So,  as a result of this grant, we have been able to really do a lot of work with our seventh and eighth graders around  college awareness and readiness. So our eighth graders went to Keene State  and visited. They went to Colby Sawyer.  They even went to a Dartmouth hockey game. We had lessons about college and college awareness during advisory,  College Awareness Week and all of that. Our seventh graders were able to go to River Valley.  And as a result of this, this grant,  Gear Up will be following these two cohorts of students through high school. And these students.  Get a $7,000 scholarship if they go to an in-state,  state and in-state state college. So,  that's pretty cool for, for our kids. So,  your child and your. Child. Each get the, you know, this money.  So our $10,000 grant  will be split with the high school next year because  they're getting our eighth graders, and we will have our aspiring eighth graders.  We found out, as  Middleton said, that they had extra money that they were able to give to us. And we've been looking at a summer program  for a number of years, but we were never able to to fit it into the budget.
NEXT> Paulette Gerald: It was never possible. So they said, we have this money. We said, we have these kids. We think this could be really great. So that's what you have in

[9828-113] Paulette Gerald | Outgoing Claremont Middle School principal, leaving for the Concord Sc | 2018-06-06
PREV> Paulette Gerald: graders. We found out, as Middleton said, that they had extra money that they were able to give to us. And we've been looking at a summer program for a number of years, but we were never able to to fit it into the budget.
TEXT> It was never possible. So they said, we have this money. We said, we have these kids. We think this could be really great. So  that's what you have in front of you is the proposal for a pilot. It costs the district nothing.  Which is great, but, Mike.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I can afford that.

[9828-115] Paulette Gerald | Outgoing Claremont Middle School principal, leaving for the Concord Sc | 2018-06-06
PREV> Jason Benware: I can afford that.
TEXT> You can afford that? I thought so.  And it's laid out there for you.  We're.  Because the money is through. Gear up. We have. To. Make college awareness part of it. Part of the grant was that we  now have the Navy program, which is all about  futures planning. And so we'll be incorporating that  into the summer program. We'll be using it. We've gone through training this year and we'll be using it, much more intensively next year. The high school also had it. The high school  already had it. We didn't have it. Now we do. So we're really excited about that.  This is  sort of, I know that the high school has a credit recovery summer program. This is sort of a standards,  recovery program in some ways.  And you can see we have the entry criteria.  Laid out for you. We have the expected outcomes. How we will be tracking things.  Tracking student success.  And it also includes  the schedule, the staffing  and and the budget. And we  just found out that there's a little bit more money available, which is which is even better. Middleton I don't know if had the chance to tell you that there was even a little bit more so.
NEXT> Paulette Gerald: So we're really excited. I think it's an opportunity to help some of our, our really struggling kids. And really, you know, we believe all kids can be successful sometimes.

[9828-116] Paulette Gerald | Outgoing Claremont Middle School principal, leaving for the Concord Sc | 2018-06-06
PREV> Paulette Gerald: the staffing and and the budget. And we just found out that there's a little bit more money available, which is which is even better. Middleton I don't know if had the chance to tell you that there was even a little bit more so.
TEXT> So we're really excited. I think it's an opportunity to help some of our, our really struggling kids. And really,  you know, we believe all kids can be successful sometimes. Our kids don't believe they can be successful.  Another part of it that we're exploring is currently we are working with  we our Hope  through our system of care grants. And  they  are all about anxiety  management. And so we have  two individuals who are working with some of our students 30 minutes a day. They come in and  with all of the social emotional learning  that, that we're all learning about.  And including Middleton, I know you've spoken about the, Ace Index, you know, and all of that. We know that a lot of our kids  have suffered through some kind of trauma,  and there's a huge anxiety component. So we're looking at partnering with we our hope  they're putting a proposal together. And we're seeing if we have enough money to cover them.  And also working with Trinity Dicks, who's coordinating the system of care grant. So, yes. Do you have a question?
NEXT> Unidentified: I'll let you finish.

[9828-119] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member asking about GEAR UP sele | 2018-06-06
PREV> Paulette Gerald: Oh, no. And that's about it. I didn't want to take up a lot of your time. I know you have a busy agenda, but questions.
TEXT> Because I think it's great. I mean, it doesn't cost our district anything. And it helps these kids, get what they need. The only question I did have, it's more of a comment when I look at your criteria. One of them is attendance, where you have three or more unexcused absences in a in a semester. And I also see that there's not transportation. So I wonder if if you're going to use those kids in your criteria, if you expect to actually see them. Right. Yeah.
NEXT> Paulette Gerald: And when we were this is not perfect. We were pulling it together. We we wished that we had the money for transportation with some of the extra we may

[9828-120] Paulette Gerald | Outgoing Claremont Middle School principal, leaving for the Concord Sc | 2018-06-06
PREV> Unidentified: attendance, where you have three or more unexcused absences in a in a semester. And I also see that there's not transportation. So I wonder if if you're going to use those kids in your criteria, if you expect to actually see them. Right. Yeah.
TEXT> And when we were this is not perfect. We were pulling it together. We we wished that we had the money for transportation with some of the extra we may be able to  right now it's not looking like. That. But that is we we have also been meeting with parents,  the parents of some of the students, really outlining, you know, your children haven't been completely successful. We believe that they can do it. And trying to help raise parents awareness as well as to the importance. Of this.
NEXT> Unidentified: But you only have you only need, three of these criteria or think right to.

[9828-130] Paulette Gerald | Outgoing Claremont Middle School principal, leaving for the Concord Sc | 2018-06-06
PREV> Steven Horsky: did we do we have the ability to also look at vocational schools as part of that? Because I think that's an important component, because we have a lot of kids that could do something besides college, and it may be better suited for them.
TEXT> That's an excellent question, and one that the mayor has had as well. She's on our advisory board. Gear up is really specifically about college, but we have been weaving in those other options as well when we're talking to the kids. So,  that's an excellent question and one that that we are aware of for sure.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Good.

[9828-154] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle and Steve' [98] -> | 2018-06-06
PREV> Unidentified: Like 25.
TEXT> Or actually, they had 25 altogether, somewhere from other areas that couldn't make it. However, it was phenomenal to see that the children who were become adults or were becoming adults who couldn't fit into that box called school were able to go through this course. And one of the things we had done is allowed to have them receive the Stevens High School diploma instead of just a certificate. Do you remember? We all voted on that. So that was the first time that happened. So it was nice to see that a 25 graduates from an alternative learning area, number one and number two, all having Stevens diplomas, which is amazingly awesome. And and they're they're proud and thrilled. So I just wanted to say that, you know, it was really awesome. They did a great job and worked hard to get there. So I feel that we should have a little more recognize each and that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, thank you for sharing that. Michelle. Sure. The communities and us are glad to hear that.

[9828-171] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle and Steve' [98] -> | 2018-06-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: not all not like that. I can show show the format. But, you know, just just to think about ways to reduce the amount of words and the size and such. If we were to try and get a different or another quote or something.
TEXT> Like the kids theory.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Well, I'd like to see, we've made we've taken a first step, and now it's going to all the parents and everything that way. I'd like to see. I mean,

[9828-186] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair asks 'Doctor McGlynn/Goodwin' [9], [65];  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Review of student of Stevens High School senior class comments.
TEXT> As I leave the district, I wanted to give you some history. And the history has been that going back  ten years or more before I even arrived, there's been the collection of data, but there hasn't been much done with it. Then we tried to do something with it around 2013, because we saw a patent of behavior as based on what the student was saying,  and I gave you a history of that. The good news is that we no longer have those sidebar letters attached to the collective bargaining agreement, effective July 1st, which means that we no longer are going to have to,  for use to a better choice of words, get into a debate about what we can or can't do as measured on what's in the best interests of students. So I've heard you, Jason, and others talk about data. You've got several years worth of data.  The reason we were going down that path four years ago, we're making some adjustments to the high school schedule was based on this data, but we got stopped.  And because the sidebar letters were stapled to the CBA, the arbitrator says they're part of the CBA. And  but that's history now. The door is now open to make meaningful, reasonable change.  And there is a process in place now involving faculty and administration in the scheduling committee.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And the community to correct, isn't there?

[9828-192] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Jason and Michelle' [333] - | 2018-06-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: there's there's ways to just fix a lot of these easily. So I feel positive about that because I was thinking that there was probably going to be so many things that we couldn't even address immediately, but there are many things that we can.
TEXT> So one of the patterns I noticed over the last few years was,  a pattern of inconsistency. And I see this come up over and over again about inconsistency, about enforcement of policy. I think that's something that really needs to be looked at and addressed.  Kind of rolls back to my questions about our cell phone policy. I think that's not the only policy that may not be consistent  throughout. And I think that that's something we'll have to talk about as time goes on, because it's not just me thinking that obviously these kids are talking about it as well. So I did see that as well.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[9828-204] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Michael O'Neill: I move $10 there. What do I say? I'll move it when it gets to a thousand or you know, and that's a that's a difficult question and hopefully something we can work together on to come up with a solution that everybody can understand.
TEXT> Do you do you ever leave the that particular line overdrawn for the sake of the auditor?
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: A lot of times. And then they'll say, how come it's over, gone? It's like, well, special education was overdrawn. So they had three kids out of district.

[9828-264] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair asks 'Doctor McGlynn/Goodwin' [9], [65];  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Yeah, and there's been more than that. Yeah. Unfortunately. And their movements and that's been the problem. Go ahead. Sorry. It's up to Frank to call on. You might help me.
TEXT> Thank you. Just past spring to to Michelle's point, this past spring, the elementary principals and I, Corey LeClaire, sat down and identified children  who might fall under the aces or might fall, but are very disruptive, very needy. Children have a lot of difficulty,  not being disruptive. And in many cases, it's not their fault. They're not being naughty. We identified 19 children in grades K through five of those, 1916 are in Kane one. The plan was to come to the board with a behavioral program  and reallocate some of our funding. That was the plan, and that was going to be meeting the needs of all children in early May, but that that item was was pushed back. So we are making efforts, but we have to stay on point and make a commitment and not push it back for other issues.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Carolyn.

[9828-407] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Horsky 'I agree with Carolyn and Re | 2018-06-06
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So some of the questions I was getting from community members are,  especially in light of what's recently been happening at schools all over our country. Some were what's this district going to do to keep our kids safe? Why aren't you guys talking about metal detectors or school resource officers or whatever? Whatever it may be.  I did say that there was a nice lady in Walmart who approached me, and I had no idea who she was, but she did tell me that it's time for me to start doing my job, which is to keep her kids safe. And I agree with her. I mean, we need to educate, but we also do need to be thinking about proactive measures.  And then, of course, there's a lot that you see online  amongst community members sharing their concerns and their thoughts and their ideas. So,  what I wrote to Middleton is that I am aware of the drills and the practices and all the procedures that we have in place now. I feel like from the questions that I've received and some things that I've read online, people are really wanting to know what we're going to do for proactive measures, because we do have a lot of reactive measures. If there's a fire, we do the fire drill. If there's an active shooter, we go in there, outside, we go into the building and we lock down in our rooms.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: You know, if there's one inside, you know, there's there's reactive procedures, but we don't really have any proactive.

[9828-418] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Jason and Michelle' [333] - | 2018-06-06
PREV> Unidentified: Jason.
TEXT> So I read all of this, and I think there's some really good questions, but I think if I was wondering about my health, I would go see my doctor because they're professionals and that's what they talk about. And I think we can speculate and we can come up with ideas. However, I think if you really want to know what we need to do to make each one of our schools safe, we should probably talk to professionals about this. Safety professionals, people who understand risk management. And, you know, we could probably have a conversation with somebody who could look at our schools and look at the scenario that we have and say, these are your options. This is what you could probably do best to make your school safest. This may be the most cost effective way to make your school safest. And go from there because I think we could hash around. I think every one of us probably has a really great idea as to what we think is the best way to keep our kids safe, but I think  a professional who actually it's their job to look at these things, probably would notice glaring errors in a lot of the things that we come up with. So I think that maybe something to consider.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think.

[9828-424] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle and Steve' [98] -> | 2018-06-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Michelle.
TEXT> So first of all, there are there are quite a few safety procedures in place already in policies and different things. Obviously the, you know, fire drills. And then I believe they have had a drill for lockdown a couple of times in each schools  so that the children, as a matter of fact, a parent, spoke out about how she explained, talked to her daughter about guns and issues. What I'm getting at is to kind of piggyback, actually on what Jason's said is we have five buildings and just like having five cars, we're constantly putting all of this money into them. We did get the bonds through for the security measures. So we do in have in place some stuff coming through if I understand. Correct me if I'm wrong at any point, please. But as I recall, so $900,000.
NEXT> Unidentified: 700.

[9828-446] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Steven. Ward two' speaking as  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Unidentified: So Steve.
TEXT> Calling what we're doing a security measure is absolutely false. It's not security. Security blankets cover and protect you. What we're doing is is very reactive. This is the screaming baby. Getting a bottle to quiet down essentially is the best analogy I can come up with, because we don't have a proactive situation in place. It's all reactive. There is money concerns to do it, but at the end of the day, one child losing their life in our school district is a problem. So I think this is a very serious discussion that we need to have. Based off the email we received today, we had a father that showed up with a firearm. Now, I don't necessarily agree with the gun free school zones. That's my own personal belief, because at the end of the day, what is not factually portrayed by the media is the fact that there is more often the good guy stopping a crime with a firearm than the bad guy committing it. Even the FBI statistics show that if you research it, at the end of the day, our schools are soft targets due to federal laws. In other choices that have been made, we need to protect our students at all costs because it could happen tomorrow. Do we have all the answers? No, we do not. But we definitely need to assess it.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Jason's idea of going to a security company, that's a great idea, but essentially they're going to tell us to build it like a prison and it's not going to

[9828-452] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle and Steve' [98] -> | 2018-06-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: because, because the community is going to well, except more if we are spending it the proper ways and and maybe their view I think more than anything is that it really hasn't felt like it's been spent as well as it could have been.
TEXT> And that's not our fault. And that's not administration. It's just both of our faults for not trying to find different avenues or communicating, whatever. The point is, is that at some point we're making large investments, whether we're making a large investment just in safety and security, that we're going to ask the taxpayers to pay. Because you and I all know that if we go with and maintain the same budget as last year, cost, there's no room for security unless you put it on a warrant article. And then the point is, is that it is not purposeful. To put the cart before the horse. You've got to look at the most important thing about keeping our children safe is not being in rooms every day. Not, you know, not having to go to school with sitting next to a trash can that's dropping water next to them and then losing their concentration constantly. This is what I'm talking about. That nobody seems to really be grasping is there's a huge amount that needs to look at. And if we consolidate and we go to the community and say, okay, this is what we are currently doing and this is what it's going to cost to currently get everyone safe in mind you, they do have doorbell rings that you can't go through unless they let you in, and you have to speak and tell them who you are in each building.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Number two, they do have the drills to help. Not saying we don't need to do more, we do. However, it's not fair, in my opinion, to ask the community

[9828-482] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: The overall point for me.
TEXT> In the meantime, I think it would there's no harm in reaching out to Mark Chase, for example, and talking to Mark and saying, okay,  this came up at the board meeting the other night.  We're looking for next steps. You know, we're we're certainly sensitive to the taxpayers here. But again, we're also sensitive to keeping our kids safe in these times. So I guess what I would want the board. I'll get to you in a second.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Is to do with what you're saying.

[9828-526] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair asks 'Doctor McGlynn/Goodwin' [9], [65];  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Unidentified: Grant.
TEXT> Was to receive free, free shoes for one of our schools in our city's free shoes from a name brand company,  a free set of shoes. Shoes for every child. Wow. And the River Stone church  was chosen to receive the grant to supply name brand shoe. Choose shoes to all the students of the Bluff Elementary School. This is a one time grant and will never be available to us again. I want to assure you, says  pastor the Tech. I hope I'm pronouncing his last name correctly. Joan the tech. I want to assure you of a few things that may be of concern. First, there was absolutely no cost to the school system. Bluff for the students or for these shoes. They are absolutely free. Second, Riverstone Church is the only. Only is only the facilitator in giving of these shoes. We are not. We will not be handing out any information about our church or any religious materials to the students and their families. This is a no strings attached gift. Thirdly, we would like to involve the local police and fire department in the actual handling, handing out of the shoes to the students. Mayor Charlene Lovett has agreed to help us also. So that will occur for the fall of 2018.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Outstanding.

[9828-617] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Steven. Ward two' speaking as  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Steve. And then Michelle.
TEXT> Okay. If we're going to be addressing the letter that came out today, I did highlight some parts in, in, the, the some of the concerns our families will have to leave work and be at risk for lost time and wages.  And if there's the treatment that fails, that it's going to be continued. Lost work and potential  loss of employment,  in potential lost time for the the student being extended the whole point of the policy is not to punish anybody, but reality sets in at some point. To address this main concern is that you have to be a parent, whether I'm calling because there were the let me correct that, whether the nurse is calling because the child has a fever at 103, or they're calling because there's head lice, you're still having to go to get your child because the call is being being made due to policy. So  while it is an inconvenience, and the key fact of the matter is, is that basically 2.6 of our student body, per the email that we received from Doctor Goodwin telling us reported cases, it worked out to about 55 students, if I remember correctly. It's not that significant of an impact. So I understand their their concerns here, but also of that we're talking about 1.3 to 1.6%  based off the numbers that were chronic.
NEXT> Unidentified: So that's the.

[9828-619] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Steven. Ward two' speaking as  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Unidentified: So that's the.
TEXT> The 1.3%. They're the ones that are  lost time wages at work. But we're also talking about chronic cases. These people need to take care of their children. Then there's the  nurses mentioned that they're dealing with social emotional problems because the child doesn't want to speak to their parents, their teachers, or even counselors. Well, at the end of the day, the nurse is not a licensed clinician in social and emotional well-being. They are trained for medical, not mental health. So at the end of the day, I find that excuse to be absurd. While they may be a comfort person to talk to, that is opening a door for an this excuse is opening a door for an issue because you're asking or stating in bold print, essentially, that I'm taking on the role  of somebody that we already pay for. That's a specialist between our psychologists and our crisis counselors..
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's.

[9828-621] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Steven. Ward two' speaking as  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's.
TEXT> You know, I appreciate that they that that there to support these children. But we do pay for the social, emotional and mental support. Another thing that was brought up in this letter was a day without food for those students. You know what that that is a that is a possibility that that's happening. But what's happening on Saturday and Sunday when they're not at school, we can't control every facet and base our policy off a 2.6% or a 1.3% of our school population. We are talking about the well-being of the children who aren't reporting it, because they're just keeping their kids out of school and treating it. I guarantee you, the numbers are a lot different than what we're seeing, because there's parents who won't call and will just take their child out and start treating. So I do appreciate the time that they tried to write this letter. I do appreciate what their feelings are, what their thoughts are, but the concerns that are here that I highlighted in that I find to be the bigger things besides the factual information which were beating  a dead horse on, is the fact that we're dealing with 2.6%. We're dealing with the fact that somebody might have to be held accountable to treat their child.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: At the end of the day, their parents. The school is to educate. We're focusing on in these policies, education, community awareness. The last resort that we have is removal

[9828-680] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Steven. Ward two' speaking as  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Unidentified: Steve.
TEXT> I make a motion to move the proposed policy, which is listed in the if we were looking at it in a document file, would be two, which does not include the words no nit for for future discussion on second read is the least. I will clarify which policy that is. It is the one that does not state no net and kick you out of school per se. It is the one that is the least offensive. It's the one that specializes primarily on the education of the students in the community. And then it has the provisions for chronic cases only.
NEXT> Unidentified: I second.

[9828-692] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle and Steve' [98] -> | 2018-06-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Want to be clear on that?
TEXT> Right. And I'm just trying to say that I think that a fairness to everyone, including the children and the community and the teachers and the parents and us, that you all as a group, collaboratively review it and then come back again with something that you know.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[9828-753] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I might not have, I don't know, but maybe just a list of all staff who have given their resignations. I know some of these people left in the middle of the year as well, so that would be good information without having personal information.
TEXT> Before we close, I want to make one quick comment. And it is 11 season and I've been watching channel nine and the people who are running for office  are  out in the lower tier. And I want to remind people that one of our, goals is that we are going to,  hopefully be holding elected officials accountable for the Lord distribution of money in this state. The fact that we are,  as Middleton is so often said, hindered by our zip code. We don't have a ski area, we don't have a lake, we don't have oceanfront, and therefore our kids don't get the opportunity to other kids do. So, I know that Chris Sununu is running for reelection. He's being opposed by a number of Democrats. I would keep an eye on  our local officials, but, I do want to. And I know we were going to talk about this at the retreat. And due to my injury, I've been kind of, delaying putting that together. But I do want to have some people thinking about us, all of us thinking about how we're going to approach this with elected officials.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And if we want to invite them to Claremont to meet the board as part of their stop so they can hear our concerns, and then we can hear from

[9828-768] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair asks 'Doctor McGlynn/Goodwin' [9], [65];  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Looking for the chairman.
TEXT> And you know, when a principal holds a staff member progressively inappropriately accountable, and it gets to a point where it is in the best interest of the district that the staff member no longer be employed.  There can be some sour grapes with that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I guess I was just looking. Maybe my question was too far. I guess it was just looking for, like, if they were terminated or if they actually just.

[9849-17] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, presiding for the City Council (addressed 'Madam M | 2018-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> And then finally,  on behalf of the city council and administration, we would like to  present something to  Doctor Goodman. So if you could join me up front. Goodwin has done for  for the benefit of the entire city with regard to testifying at the state House.  These are not easy trips because it requires an hour and 15 minutes down there, several hours of testimony, parking tickets  coming back, and then many times they had a meeting to go to that evening. And  I have to say, I can't be more pleased with the effort that you put in at the state House because you were always there on the big issues that mattered for this community. First one being and it took we didn't think but two years to get a law changed that would impact the safety of our children in schools. And that was the law that allowed the superintendent superintendents across the state to receive a full  background check on potential hires that didn't exist before. And it took us, us being doctor McGowan, myself, the family involved at the time, Chief Scott,  it was a community wide effort and we were told.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: We don't know if this will go through. And it took two years and multiple trips, multiple time, multiple meetings, and just a lot of aggravation because you would think

[9849-29] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (recognized by the mayor with a State House cloc | 2018-06-21
PREV> Charlene Lovett: It and there's instructions. And if you want to talk to them about any questions, you can contact the manufacturer. So if you want to.
TEXT> Thank you very very much. I am. Very, very surprised but very honored to to receive this.  I'm going to put it in a prominent space in my home.  And  it's going to be a reminder  of who I work for, which basically were the students.  The students were my focus,  and  very, very proud to have been here seven years.  David Putnam, who's in the audience. And, Charlene, you were on the board to that, along with other members that approved, approved my appointment and blink your eyes in seven years later.  But a lot of good memories, a lot of tough struggles. But I walk away very proud by what has been accomplished by many the partnerships, the professional and personal relationships is what did it  perseverance  and  always asking the question  is this in the best interest of students? So thank you. Thank you very much.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Very welcome.

[9849-31] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, presiding for the City Council (addressed 'Madam M | 2018-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Very welcome.
TEXT> I forgot to mention during that as well that the work that Doctor Goodwin and all of us did on the Leadville is still receiving regional and, actually attention in all over New England. And then the work that we did as far as getting the law changed to ensure that our students are safe and the educational environment and the superintendent and the hiring authorities have all of the information they need to make a good decision that that is now being looked at at the federal level through Congresswoman Custer's office, to see if it can be replicated across the state, rather across the nation, rather than having different states have different,  laws and putting children unintentionally at risk. So. That is the end of my notes. So that moves us on to citizens form.
NEXT> Unidentified: Claremont, New Hampshire. And Ward two, some settings I used that. As an active member of the Racial Healing Working Group. I want to recognize and thank Middleton Goodwin for

[9849-32] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter, Ward 2, member of the Racial Healing  | 2018-06-21
PREV> Charlene Lovett: office, to see if it can be replicated across the state, rather across the nation, rather than having different states have different, laws and putting children unintentionally at risk. So. That is the end of my notes. So that moves us on to citizens form.
TEXT> Claremont, New Hampshire. And  Ward two, some settings I used that. As an active member of the Racial Healing Working Group. I want to recognize and thank Middleton Goodwin for his participation and support of our efforts to further address student safety, diversity, inclusion, and racial justice within our community. His presence as a community leader in the working group exemplifies the good that comes from collaborative efforts between community members and the schools to create a healthy, vibrant community. I understand that there has already been a process established to select the new superintendent that does not include community members outside the school. Leadership I would like to suggest that there be room for others in the selection process from the community. Beyond the school board and administration. There was a precedent set set in Claremont and allowing community members to join the selection committee for the new city manager. I believe this collaborative effort produced great results and enabled community members to offer insights that would have otherwise been neglected. Please consider opening the membership of this selection process for the new superintendent to concerned community members, who would add a perspective that could enrich the process and create a more collaborative effort between the public and the school system. Thank you very much.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I saw another hand back in the back.

[9849-76] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, presiding for the City Council (addressed 'Madam M | 2018-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: This or.
TEXT> They're already tight on the city side. There's communication all the time between planning and development and the chamber, but it still doesn't resolve the issue, which is how do you communicate to the community what is going on within the walls of the schools, schools? And and it's not happening. I mean, it happens occasionally when you have, you know, sports teams do well and they do a great job talking about the student athletes. And, sometimes you get  articles in the paper about  those who've made the Dean's List when they've gone on to college, but there's very little about some of the really unique things that are going on the  on within the school, the curriculum, accomplishments that students are doing and that if we're going to move the city  forward, we can't do that without promoting the schools and vice versa.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So and that person needs to be literally embedded, you know, that's the only way they're going to have.

[9849-84] David Putnam | Public commenter, former Claremont School Board member (McNutt: 'Mr. P | 2018-06-21
PREV> David Putnam: have this person in place so that they can participate in this work. So what's the big deal about the image? Well, Claremont doesn't have the best of image according to how a lot of people feel, and I feel we have to address it.
TEXT> And I feel it's an immediate thing to work on. The time is now to do it.  Nancy Merrill with Economic development has been working very hard to create an image that we can host more employers here. But part of our image problem is we don't have the trained workforce and good people are moving out of town. We have families moving out of town now because they don't want the children in the school district because of issues that are going on in the schools, the idea of what the cost would be,  you have to discover what the payback is. So you have to go through some strategy sessions of understanding what it's costing you not to do this. And I think you will find that it's costing you a lot more in the long run  than it would be in paying for it. I believe the return on investing in this position would be over a period of several years, to your benefit. There's no question in my mind that we would grow. Charlene referenced. Well, I think Middleton referenced where Charlene was writing a weekly article prior to Charlene doing it. Mary would. Excuse me, Mary Dakin did it for a while, and before that, Chris Terrell that started with the School Board Subcommittee on Communications 16 years ago. And first, Chris volunteered to write the weekly article.
NEXT> David Putnam: That was the whole back page of the newspaper. When Chris got off the board, Mary Dakin stepped up. When Mary got off the board, Charlene stepped up. And the

[9849-188] Cloutier | NH State Representative, Claremont (introduced as 'Representative Curr | 2018-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: The questions.
TEXT> I came here tonight, Madam. Mayor. And Mr. School board chairman, to mainly listen to what you think some of legislators like represent Gauthier and I. Assuming we we  are sent back. Course, if we aren't, then it will be whoever takes our places. Well, what do you think the focus should be on behalf of both the city and the school district first  and then I'll, I don't know, share thoughts. We will probably be some common points and, you know, maybe some things that we as legislators want to push as well. But mainly I came here first of all to listen, to see what you would like to do in 2019.  You know, especially if, if both represent Gauthier and I are returned, as with the other people who are running.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Did you did you.

[9849-197] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (co-presiding; calls meeting to order [0] | 2018-06-21
PREV> Carolyn Towle: out for you, I would like if you're interested in helping us formulate our subcommittee and catapulting this forward. Please get a hold of Frank or Marjorie. I, I think that this is where we need to go and a lot of our efforts, so.
TEXT> Can I just piggyback on  her comments? So the I read through the, And thank you for sending, you know, doctor. Good one. The, the lawyers involved with this sort of point that two different ways of approaching this one being,  Claremont 301 and continuing that course of action. Another course of action is to  really put our elected officials and as a group state of New Hampshire, make sure that the people we are voting for, people we are electing,  have their city in the best interests of their city, in their in not following the party line. And, they told us this is  does not split down Partizan lines. Both Republicans and Democrats over the years have have dropped the ball in addressing this larger issue.  And personally, I've already contacted the two gubernatorial candidates.  Just throwing a feeler out to them as the as a community member that this is a concern here. I sent one to Governor Sununu and the  the Democratic candidate, and I can't remember her name. I have not heard back from either one of them. But I think as a group, as a city,  I know when we heard from the lawyers, Keene is involved with this. Keene's interested in participating.  I know Newport is. I've already talked to Doctor Gallagher. She's  all in. Certainly we are. Pittsfield is. And I agree with what Mayor Lovett just said.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think it has come to a critical mass. I think that, it's affecting everyone. We heard last night in our board meeting, we talked about, catastrophic aid for our

[9849-261] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, presiding for the City Council (addressed 'Madam M | 2018-06-21
PREV> Gauthier: Right. And if the if the if the money keeps going away for, for stabilization, they want to walk away from education to says it right. In the Constitution they can.
TEXT> So let's let's keep our we have finite period of time. So right now we have communicated to our legislators that, our number one priority is education funding. Whatever you can do to advocate advocate for this community and recapturing some lost, even if we have to start, you know, it's not a full solution, but freeze that 4% reduction. And then we want we would like you, however you deem fit to resubmit an lesser for the House bill 413  and then  what else folks. Because we've got another couple of items is here because I don't know the school district businesses. I'd like to know what some of your critical barriers are to  within the school district, to having the kids get earn the outcomes that you're hoping for. And if you could just kind of say that in a nutshell, that might give us some ideas on  what else we would like the legislators to support.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I think it would be better, actually, to have a sit down with the legislators and give us prepare some concrete information.

[9849-264] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (recognized by the mayor with a State House cloc | 2018-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> But I will I will share with you. We were last month. The administrative team last month was going to bring forth the recommendations of the school board about having an in-house or on site behavioral program to meet the needs of children who experience adverse childhood trauma.  And we  find these children, these children who can be physically aggressive, verbally assaultive.  And I'm talking about K to five. But that didn't go very far. But I can share this with you. We identified the administration, identified 19 children, K to five, who are very disruptive, whose needs aren't being met consistently. Of that, 1916 were great K and one. So when we talk about one school district and another school district, you can look at numbers, but you have to go much deeper into the demographics, if not the child's fault. They had this trauma. It's not the child's fault that they are behaving this way. They're not being naughty. They have some serious issues that need specific intervention and and having to be within the classroom,  does have a ripple effect across the board. So, that's just one example. But there were others. And so so in all due respect, Madam Mayor, I would recommend that the future administration sit down with the legislature and give you real concrete, black and white examples similar to what I even said just a little a few minutes ago about comparing one district to the other and the difference of finances.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So you'll have a better understanding of the seriousness because the playing field is not level.

[9849-272] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (recognized by the mayor with a State House cloc | 2018-06-21
PREV> Charlene Lovett: So. I think you're that was your top one of the behavioral health for children.
TEXT> There are many more that that is a very serious issue. Okay. And we were, as I said, having some preliminary plans to address it. But that being said, I really would like, before I leave to work with my colleagues and give you some multi years of examples and what the priorities are, because that information is critical. You can't measure a school district by numbers, by budgets. You have to really dig down into the demographics and the needs of the children and the needs of the schools.
NEXT> Gauthier: Did you have time tomorrow to meet tomorrow morning at your office?

[9850-43] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Doctor Goodwin' [7]; gives superinte | 2018-06-20
PREV> Jason Benware: Thank you.
TEXT> I had the honor of representing, say, you six last Saturday from 12:00 to 4:00 at the Visitors Park area  of Rural Pride. Event made front page news in the Valley news. A great credit to the Claremont community recognizing diversity. Celebrating diversity. It's something that  is long overdue when I hope it is sustained here in our in our community. But Claremont should have should be pride. Proud to have  supported this. And the rural pride event was initiated by students who had to travel several miles to another community to participate in diversity celebrations and so  sided with our students. And  it was a wonderful event. And next Tuesday I have the privilege of going to the night elementary school, actually next Monday night, elementary school where our kindergarten program, our kindergarten school begins, where we have approximately 50 kindergarten students who were identified and invited to attend and participate in that in that summer to  address their gaps, if you will, in preparation for  first grade. It's a wonderful intervention. And another thing that the Claremont School District should be proud of. Early intervention is critical. Investing when children are  little has a tremendous impact.  When they become older and tremendous impact  on on the reducing the need of intervention  in the upper elementary and middle school versus waiting for them to become at a stage where they need serious intervention, oftentimes by individual education program or special needs. And that is it, sir.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Great. Thank you.

[9850-50] Matt Bean |  | 2018-06-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Could you state your name and.
TEXT> Matt Bean? I am now Ward one because I originally just moved and I was like, I was honestly like, what board am I? And I honestly have no idea. So now I'm more one now beam. Yeah.  I'm really here tonight to for one reason. That is to thank the doctor Goodwin, for his service to the Claremont School District. I've seen him do a lot of things working in the district that, you know, made me very happy to to work for him. So thank you. Thank you, doctor McCubbin, for when a third grader at one of our elementary schools said he wanted his reward to have lunch with you. You made that a priority. Thank you for that. Thank you for having lunch with the Life skills students at least once a month this year. I don't know what the exact number is, but you were down there at least once a month with the special ed students, and I can tell you for a fact that that made that made their day. And I would also like to just thank you for your absolute toughness and grit during the very tough budget season that we just had, and for putting students first, because as you have said before, school districts should be run based on the needs of the students. And that's the way it should be. Thank you sir. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you Matt.

[9850-53] Linda Patch | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID 'Linda patch, Ward two' [65]; spelli | 2018-06-20
PREV> Jason Benware: Thank you.
TEXT> Linda patch, Ward two. And forgive me that I have to read this, but I didn't want to miss any of my comments. It is with a great deal of sadness and disappointment that I have heard of the termination of Doctor Goodman as superintendent of saw six. I don't profess to know why this happened, but I do know this. I have known Doctor Mick Goodwin for seven years. I have known him. I believe he has been in education for 50 or so years as a teacher, a principal and his administrator. To me, that adds up to a lot of knowledge about education, the ins and outs. Some of you on the current school board were elected a few months ago. Just a comparison. I'm sure that he has made mistakes along the way, as we all have, but I believe his biggest concern was for the education of our students. I often saw him supporting our children at concerts, plays and sporting events. Maybe you as a school board had some disagreement with him and he with you. Whatever happened to coming together to a mutual agreement for the good of all involved?
NEXT> Linda Patch: I believe that you, the school board, took the coward's way out behind his back. He made plans to terminate him. Did you ever tell him of your concerns that

[9850-56] Mimi Rhines | Public commenter, Ward 1; Stevens High School school counselor (ASR 'M | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Hi, guys. Mimi Ryan's board one.  I'm also jumping on the Doctor Goodwin train today.  I just need to thank you because you took a chance on me when I had no experience as a school counselor.  And I interviewed in a lot of districts, and, you know,  I didn't get offers because I had no experience. And that's kind of the hardest part of being school counselor. You don't get a job you don't experience, but you can't get jobs. It's a terrible circle to be in. And I was so happy two years ago to get that phone call from you saying, you know what, I like you. You're good people. We're going to hire you. So I have to thank you for that because I had never been happier before. And you've always been fair to me. My two years here, I've seen you work tirelessly for the kids. I've seen it at events, concerts, plays, games, random things that we're all like, why are we here? But you're there, you know? And I think your dedication to this district has been extremely appreciated by us as a staff and as a school.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: Secondly, I, I watched the meeting last week, and I know during the discussion on the school nurses, I know there was some discussion about nurses roles in terms of

[9850-57] Mimi Rhines | Public commenter, Ward 1; Stevens High School school counselor (ASR 'M | 2018-06-20
PREV> Mimi Rhines: kids. I've seen it at events, concerts, plays, games, random things that we're all like, why are we here? But you're there, you know? And I think your dedication to this district has been extremely appreciated by us as a staff and as a school.
TEXT> Secondly, I,  I watched the meeting last week, and I know during the discussion on the school nurses,  I know there was some discussion about nurses roles in terms of mental health. I'm not a nurse, so I can't speak to that directly, but I do need to say it. Stevens. At least we work as a team in our nurses, part of our student support team, and oftentimes nurses are the first one to pick up on concerns of kids, and they do bring those concerns to the students. Just something I just wanted to say that in defense of the nurses, so to speak. Thank you. Have a good summer, everyone.
NEXT> Karen Collison: Good evening. My name is Karen Collison. I'm not a citizen of Claremont, but I am a citizen of Leinster and a a faculty member at the Stevens High School.

[9850-62] Karen Collison | Public commenter; Stevens High School English teacher, resident of Lem | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: It's fine with me. Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> Good evening. My name is Karen. I've been an English teacher at Stevens High School for 18 years. I submitted my letter of resignation about four weeks ago. I never thought I would be leaving Stevens High School like this. I never thought it could ever get this bad. But for me, it has. I have not been sent a survey asking why I was leaving. I did not ask for an exit interview, as I think it should be the other way around. The school district or administration should be asking me why I'm leaving the place I have called home for the past 18 years, but they did not. So I'm here to tell you why. First and foremost, it's not about the money. I did not look for another job because I don't make enough money. Yes, I would like to make more and I feel like I honestly deserve more. But I didn't begin my search for a new place to teach because of money. Second, I am not leaving because of the students in Claremont. In all sincerity,  I love the students of Claremont. These are my kids and I will cherish my memories of Chanty town and Nordic ski meets and scorching tennis matches and band concerts and plays and musicals and art shows and lip sync battles and late night calls from kids who are struggling or hurting and just need to talk to someone.
NEXT> Karen Collison: No, it's not the kids at all. I'm leaving because I'm tired of fighting. I am tired of fighting for my students to have materials they need and deserve. The

[9850-63] Karen Collison | Public commenter; Stevens High School English teacher, resident of Lem | 2018-06-20
PREV> Karen Collison: my memories of Chanty town and Nordic ski meets and scorching tennis matches and band concerts and plays and musicals and art shows and lip sync battles and late night calls from kids who are struggling or hurting and just need to talk to someone.
TEXT> No, it's not the kids at all.  I'm leaving because I'm tired of fighting. I am tired of fighting for my students to have materials they need and deserve. The English department does not have a designated card of computers for students to use. We must reserve them through the library. And Jean Raya, our librarian, does an incredible job of making do with what we have, but we just don't have what the kids need. I am tired of fighting for my job or fighting for the jobs of other valuable, nay, critical educators. The Claremont School District lost a curriculum and instruction director to the school district. Mrs. Downing was the one administrator who had vision and worked to get the district faculty and staff to understand and internalize that vision of standards based instruction and education. Her leadership and commitment to the students and faculty  of Stevens High School was incomparable. Her knowledge, passion and dedication to us was unmatched. Christine Downing was the pinnacle of servant leadership, always, always supporting the faculty and students and bringing out the best in each of us through hard work and focused determination. Like Mrs. Downing and many others for the past few years, their jobs were up on the chopping block.
NEXT> Karen Collison: This way of doing business for the Claremont School District. Is demeaning, degrading and disrespectful. These aren't merely positions or inconsequential, dispensable jobs. These are people with lives and families.

[9850-66] Karen Collison | Public commenter; Stevens High School English teacher, resident of Lem | 2018-06-20
PREV> Karen Collison: retirement party. Many of their friends and family members gathered, gathered to celebrate years and years of experience. The Claremont School District did nothing to recognize their lifelong work. Nothing. No golden apple. No gift card to the tavern. No recognition from the school district.
TEXT> No bouquet of flowers? No thank you. Nothing. There was a time when the school district honored retirees with a banquet. The school district used to give out watches to those employees who served in the district for 20 years or more now at Stevens High School. The Hearts and Flowers organization, which is made up of Stevens High School's faculty and staff and the Tech Center faculty, all contribute $20 a year, sometimes $40 a year, so that we can pay for watches for our own retiring teachers. This is not how you attract, retain and celebrate teachers. This is how the Claremont School District and Stevens High School debase the teaching profession in the very heart. Of who we are and who what our system is about. Effective leadership and retaining employees is about servant leadership. Paul demonstrated this well, one simple yet profound gesture, Mr. Carter. Practice was during parades. He would walk behind the Stevens High School marching band, pulling a wagon loaded with water for those students who needed some while marching in those hot, scratchy uniforms. When it was raining during the parade, Mr. Couture would pull a wagon full of umbrellas to keep those instruments dry. Money would be nice, but the key to retaining good teachers is about empowering teachers. It's about servant leadership of administration, and it's about creating a culture of respect and honor for the teachers who love the children of Claremont. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you for all your time. Also here at Stevens.

[9850-102] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Christine Downey who you heard Karen Collison speak of is here tonight. She is also here with Larissa Cahill to discuss the high school scheduling Committee update. Welcome, ladies.
TEXT> Good evening, Christine Downing. Stevens high school curriculum specialist.  Coming off of a day, an eight hour day. I just have to tell you, we are running an 80 hour Intel mathematics class for  our elementary teachers. And we do have two teachers joining us from Fall Mountain in Plainfield as well.  This is all completely funded by a title to be Mass Science Partnership grant. And it was a jazz day. Imagine sitting in a room for eight hours and you are studying mathematics, right? Hey, if you're a math geek, you love it like myself, right, Mike? Any better. Than that? That's right. So, extended learning opportunities. I'm giving you two documents. One of the documents I'm giving I actually shared with you back in September, but I know our board composition has changed. This is the the the multi-page document, is the ELO handbook that we have used to outline. This handbook really went into effect in about January of 2017. You hired me in August of 2016,  and it was clear at that time that ellos were definitely something that could help meet the needs of our students, yet we didn't really have a prescribed process for it. So we went right to town and started articulating out the procedures and making sure we are in compliance.  I do want to point out to you in that handbook, from a board perspective, some things that you as a board want to be aware of.
NEXT> Christine Downing: And if you actually go to page six, the bottom of page six, you're going to see, and this is an interactive document. So anywhere you see the underlining, it's

[9850-103] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: we went right to town and started articulating out the procedures and making sure we are in compliance. I do want to point out to you in that handbook, from a board perspective, some things that you as a board want to be aware of.
TEXT> And if you actually go to page six, the bottom of page six, you're going to see, and this is an interactive document. So anywhere you see the underlining, it's actually a hyperlink on the website. But on the bottom of page six you'll see those that are underlying currently are your active policies around ellos.  I am recommending there's actually three additional policies that I think this board is going to want to include that support ellos to round out the policy package. And they're listed there. Two of them are at the bottom of page six. I'll be a I am a and then on the top I am BCABC.  I actually have some templates for you all on that and some suggested wording on that that I'm leaving with Doctor Goodman and Miss LeClaire. Okay. So the those may be coming up on your radar because I think you want to round out your policy package so you have the full support of that. You need to have. Okay.  Just to to let folks know,  at at the front of that packet, yellows are about high academic expectations, student interests and needs, community school community partnerships and authentic learning. I really want to point out that first bullet high academic needs ellos are not a credit recovery process. I don't want them to get confused in that realm.
NEXT> Christine Downing: Extended learning opportunities really drive off of the interest, the passion and the motivation of the students. So all l process literally starts with the students. The students start with

[9850-104] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: are about high academic expectations, student interests and needs, community school community partnerships and authentic learning. I really want to point out that first bullet high academic needs ellos are not a credit recovery process. I don't want them to get confused in that realm.
TEXT> Extended learning opportunities really drive off of the interest, the passion and the motivation of the students. So all l process literally starts with the students. The students start with either speaking to a school council like Miss Rhines who was here, or myself, and they just start a conversation about, hey, I'm going to do this great, interesting, unique thing. Is there a way I can get credit for that? And that's usually how the conversations start. And so on. Pages nine, ten, 11 and 12. In the handbook, you actually have our rubrics of how we score our ellos. Okay. This handbook is given out to any student and parent, family member, etc. that expresses an interesting wanting to learn more about ellos. And we start the process there towards the back of the handbook, and it's actually after page 13. They're not numbered because they're actually the links that  are on page 13 are the actual forms. We have three sets of forms that go with the L process. The first one is the initial request for an l o. And that's the application.
NEXT> Christine Downing: And that really starts the ball rolling for the student. The student and the parent complete that, as well as possibly any community partner or teacher that might be involved.

[9850-105] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: 13. They're not numbered because they're actually the links that are on page 13 are the actual forms. We have three sets of forms that go with the L process. The first one is the initial request for an l o. And that's the application.
TEXT> And that really starts the ball rolling for the student. The student and the parent  complete that, as well as possibly any community partner or teacher that might be involved. And then if you go past that, you're going to next see the form is called the Extended Learning Opportunity Plan.  And this is why I really encourage that. Whoever takes over the role of Ellos at Stephen's High school, and I will get to my summary report in a second, really needs to have a curriculum background, because this plan becomes a contract for the yellow, and it gets very detailed out. Some of these plans can be in the neighborhood of five, six, seven, eight pages long, and they have timelines in them. They have expectations, you know, what projects will be completed when, etc.  all yellows have to contain four components research, reflection, product presentation. So there's need to be research going on throughout, reflection, going on throughout, and then some sort of culmination that brings all the learning together and that how that product and presentation play out can vary from student to student.
NEXT> Christine Downing: And so that's the handbook. I just wanted you to have that to reference. The last form in that is our completion record. All three of those documents, along with

[9850-108] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: been a problem. How we work the stipends with teachers is it's two levels of stipends. There's a $250 stipend for an L if it's really already curriculum that's been developed for courses. Stevens. And so it might be an independent study of that course.
TEXT> Example would be a student can't fit the course into the schedule. So they end up doing an L through an independent study with the teacher. Independent studies are a form of l. Think of ellos as your big umbrella, and there's many things that can fall under it internships, online learning, etc. okay, so they get 250 for that if it pretty much mirrors the curriculum already in place. If it's a complete redesign of curriculum, a whole new experience where we're really thinking outside the box, that's a $450 stipend. I will tell you, a majority of our yellows this past year fell in that realm of 450 because we had some really creative thinking with our staff going on in our students. So you can see how it played out in 16, 17. And the cost. I want to keep in mind, just to reiterate on the bottom of this front page, while it says the total stipend cost was 8250,  actually not what the district paid out. What the district paid out was 4650. Because you remember, the curriculum specialist myself picked up monitoring and the coordination of some ellos. Okay. And you can see that there, that it was about 43% of the LS that I actually picked up.
NEXT> Christine Downing: So there was no additional stipend cost associated with those. The 1718 school year, you can see we're increasing again down at the bottom. This is one thing I want

[9850-109] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: paid out. What the district paid out was 4650. Because you remember, the curriculum specialist myself picked up monitoring and the coordination of some ellos. Okay. And you can see that there, that it was about 43% of the LS that I actually picked up.
TEXT> So there was no additional stipend cost associated with those. The 1718 school year, you can see we're increasing  again down at the bottom. This is one thing I want the board to be mindful of is that you need to really start thinking about ellos are  are growing exponentially here okay. They are meeting kids needs. That's a cost factor to all of you. And the primary cost factor is the stipend that is allocated towards the teacher. And we have to comply with that's E contract. And that's why those stipends are built into there to meet that language in the contract. Okay.  So you can see the cost more than doubled from last year to this year. At a total of 16757 50. But what was actually really paid out was 113 50. And then looking ahead right now, I have in progress ls never stopped. That's the thing. They really hit the component of anywhere, anytime learning for kids. And so right now I have eight that are beginning right now eight summer ls happening. And I'm in planning phase development with kiddos right now for 12 ellos to start in the fall.
NEXT> Christine Downing: So it's it's it's 12 months a year. Yellow is a really demonstrate learning throughout the year. Not just, you know the school calendar year. The summary kind of wraps

[9850-111] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: hardships and our fiscal limits. I truly do, as some of you may or may not know, I sit on the Goshen School board right next door to you. So I sit on your side of the table all the time, twice a month myself.
TEXT> So I totally get that. But ellos are something that you can do with a pretty low cost impact on your budget and really meet the needs of the kids. A majority of our Ells do fall in the realm of either a half credit or a full credit. We do have some exceptions to that.  And I think the other thing to know is that in 18 months of this program, basically starting in January, we've done 95 ellos already. So I think, you know, this is something you guys want to hold on to. It's got good structure started. Yeah. There's room for improvement in our process. Most definitely. We can always improve any process because. But you've got a great baseline here.  And a great understanding already developing in the staff, the students, our community partners and our parents that, you know, ellos are not the easy way out. They are rigorous. They are challenging. But the best part about it is it comes from the interest and motivations of the kids and it gets them jazzed up. So any questions?
NEXT> Unidentified: Sure.

[9850-121] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Okay. Yeah. So this is in yellow. Yeah. And she worked up the whole strategic plan with the teacher and the whole thing. So I really appreciate where this is going and where this can go. So thank you. You're welcome.
TEXT> You're welcome. And it's really, really important I know that. You know, we want to think about why can't the teacher just take these on. You really need a point person that's coordinating all this. You know, kids will come to me with ideas. They might have ideas of possible community partners, but they haven't made that connection. And so I need to reach out on behalf of the school, develop that. I mean, we also have to look at by Department of Labor laws get factored into this. For example, I have three kids this summer placed in unpaid internships. Yes, they're not getting paid, but they're getting that work experience. I have to get all those businesses vetted through the Department of Labor, you know, in and we want to keep our community partnership Strongs to kind of push it on to the business and say, hey, you need to do this. If we take it on and we say, hey, you give us your information because,  you know, we know the network of how to get through the Department of Labor.  And so we can expedite that. I mean, example is I placed a kid at Red River just they started last Friday.  And Red River is like, hey, our, approval lapsed because it's annual.
NEXT> Christine Downing: They have to renew it every year. And I'm like, no problem, no problem. Let me pick up the phone. I'll call. We had that approval within 36 hours. So,

[9850-125] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: have got to help them navigate. You're demonstrating X, Y, and Z. We know you are. The best part, I got to tell you, with an l o is reading their, their journals and logs that they keep throughout, but then they're their summary reflection.
TEXT> And I guess the one thing that I would say ls do that we haven't really solidified yet at Stevens High School is they address what we call those 21st century skills. They address what it means to be a problem solver, a communicator. And we haven't necessarily nailed that down at Stevens yet in all our core academic classes. And here's the thing. The rubrics that the staff wrote during the knee ask visit for those 21 sees. I use them all the time in my yellows and they work. And I know they work because I give them to community partners who give me the feedback on how to grade them. And I have yet to have one community partner say, I don't understand how to use these rubrics. I don't know how. I hand them to them, say, give me a rating back, talk to me about the student and how they did so we can figure out what's that final rating. And they work.  So we've got some good things going.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I just wanted to say that I think that this program is great. I think that when you have students who have a desire to learn something, we need to

[9850-127] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Jason Benware: out of high school. Whether it be to go right into the field or to to go to school, it seems like it's a much more productive means of teaching somebody than simply sitting in the classroom all the time. So very supportive of this.
TEXT> You know, the neat thing is, the byproduct of all of this is the influence it has on classroom teacher practices.  I mean, Larissa has done in yellow, so she can always speak to that. But what teachers often tell me after they've done ellos is, you know, I'm going to bring what I did with my yellow student into my classroom, why can't I? I remember Rick Johnson, math teacher, saying to me, you know, I did all these project based with math. Why am I not doing these with the kids? I say, great question, Rick. Why not? Let's try it. You know, so sometimes the yellow can be the pilot where I try out some instructional things and say, wait, I can get this to work with a bigger group of kids, right? So there is influence in terms of our instructional practices happening with that too. Michelle.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: It is.

[9850-132] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Doctor Goodwin' [7]; gives superinte | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Okay. I'm not going to.
TEXT> If I if I can, Back in 2014, when Pat Berry arrived, I asked her, would you please just a committee of your colleagues of your faculty and ask the question and then ask the question, is our current schedule meeting the needs of our students?  And four years later, with grievances, public employee labor relations board, arbitration and a hearing at the Supreme Court, we now are in a position where there isn't anything in our way as far as a collective bargaining agreement or sidebar letters to limit us from going forward with answering that question other than funding. But to the credit of Larissa Cahill and Christine Downey and several other of our colleagues have been working on a committee to answer that question. This is not a quick answer, and it's not going to be an overnight.  When you paint a classroom, you cover up to furniture, you wash the walls, you paint the room, and you're done. You've made a change with scheduling. It's not that simple. And it may be a multiyear process in addition to the pairing for the finances of it. So very pleased to have Larissa and Christine here. And the goal is to give you an update as to what's been happening this past year, remembering that they did  talk to you before this year. They did give you an eye as to where they were, where they were heading. Ladies. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: You're welcome.

[9850-141] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (second cluster f | 2018-06-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: school schedule. We want to make sure utilizes community and school resources to create community partnerships in order to allow learning to happen beyond the classroom walls. So these are our core beliefs. Everything that we do as a committee is looked through that lens.
TEXT> So I'm going to back up one second, because I'm going to pull out a bullet here,  that when we first wrote down this second bullet of choice in voice to promote student agency, I don't think there were many committee members at the time that really knew what that meant. But they do now, and I want to say they do now, because you all supported the District Strategic Action Plan back in the fall, and we drove professional learning for the entire district around what truly is student centered learning. And that is a key component right there, student ownership. And that entails choice in voice and agency. And so we spent time as a district studying this. And I think she's smiling because she's. Like.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: Yes, we do.

[9850-152] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: categories that as we looked at people's responses to say, this is about something you want to real life application, etc., to point out this chart, what these numbers in parentheses mean is that among this group. So for example, among the parent response group,
TEXT> The daily timetable came out as the number one the most most of the responses set it around. I'm most concerned about what happens logistically on a daily basis. In Stevens, the number two was in academics. A lot of those times about making sure we're offering the high level, rigorous academics, and the third was real life practice. So you can go across and you can look amongst the student body and the parents and the staff. Daily timetable, logistics. Number one,  a lot of the qualitative responses they they gave us spoke to  House flex. Going to happen. How's the lunch going to happen. Are we going to change the start and end times of the day. Those types of questions. Right. And then you can see it center out  that  a lot of it, it was either 2 or 3. The next big area is this application. We want a schedule that promotes real life practical experiences for our kids. Right. And then there's some differentiation and academics and choice among the stakeholder groups.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: So once we started reviewing all of that information, we also started to begin the criteria for a rubric. So if you look at the book that we've spread out

[9850-163] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: we've brought it back to our stakeholders so that they know what it is we're up to. And so we gave a pull to our staff members, in terms of how they felt about grade level advisories. And this is the result that we got.
TEXT> I think, to also echo that in our research, in our visits and going back to the I think it's our third core value and belief about that. We want to schedule that personalizes learning for kids so they can make connections. One of the things we discovered in our visits and our research that was coming out of this is how people use advisory in their schedule and how they get the most bang for their buck out of that program. And so we felt this is a low hanging fruit for us. It's not it's not impacting the daily logistics of the schedule, but yet it is a scheduling component.  How we do advisory. And so here's our data right here that we basically ask folks, we really got it down to two things. One, do you support single grade level advisories or mixed grade level data is telling us single is the way to go. We also wanted to ask them, well, if you went single, would you want to stay with that group for all four years and follow the kids along? So, you know, I pick up a freshman group following sophomore junior or do I just I'm always a freshman advisor and I always get the incoming freshmen. Right. And then they leave and go to another.
NEXT> Christine Downing: It's clear our staff likes that that and it doesn't surprise any of us. We know that about our teachers at Stevens. They they get invested in our kids and

[9850-164] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: all four years and follow the kids along? So, you know, I pick up a freshman group following sophomore junior or do I just I'm always a freshman advisor and I always get the incoming freshmen. Right. And then they leave and go to another.
TEXT> It's clear our staff likes  that that and it doesn't surprise any of us. We know that about our teachers at Stevens. They they get invested in our kids and they, you know.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: We like to keep.

[9850-166] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: We like to keep.
TEXT> Them all for years. And so they want they want to be able to travel with the kids all four years. So we're trying to figure out how we make that happen for the fall.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: So and just so that you're aware, our next step.

[9850-186] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (states the board gave her signing aut | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: Butterfly structure.
TEXT> In place that when we need to talk to the custodial staff about a piece of the budget, when we get to that point where we have things a little bit more finalized, we know that we need to tap into them where the school board or  the food service. And so there are other groups not yet represented on the committee itself, but we have a structure in place for getting feedback from those other, other stakeholder groups, when, when we can effectively use their time and we're not just asking them to sit through a committee for the sake of sitting through a committee.
NEXT> Christine Downing: I mean, case in point, I'm just going to put this on the spot here. We we knew she wanted to be involved in the committee. She made that really

[9850-196] Paulette Gerald | Outgoing Claremont Middle School principal (introduced by superintende | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: Oh you're welcome.
TEXT> We actually met with Frank today okay. He was with us for a few hours. So thank you for having us tonight. For those of you who were not on the board before, I brought some samples of our student handbook. Our our student planner. Some of you are nodding. I'm sure you've seen it. So I can pass this around you. The reason we're. Here in two is. Is because. We have. Our parents student. Handbook. Bound in to our student. Attendance. And we have a deadline. That we have to meet, which is next week. So that's why we're here now, seeking your approval for our parent, our student parent handbook.  So as it goes around, you'll see it's a very useful tool at the beginning of the year,  during our advisories, teachers go over the handbook. Parents, this is sign off sheet there for parents as well. We so we wanted to, well, I think you've all received it. You've all received the the draft. It's in draft form.  There are minimal changes because we know that Frank is coming on board. In addition, Audra will be leading a lot of work this summer with regard to our multi-tiered systems of support. So, as I said, minimal changes.
NEXT> Paulette Gerald: I think there will probably be more changes next year at this time as CMS develops and grows. I know that you also received the list of revisions as well,

[9850-240] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Doctor Goodwin' [7]; gives superinte | 2018-06-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> Preschool you have in your packet this evening. A preschool family handbook. A glossary of special education terms, acronyms and abbreviations. A five year state systemic improvement plan, as well as question and answers. Frequently asked questions, rather preschool bussing. Diane Edwards is not able to be here this evening. I hope you've had a chance to read it. Like any effective handbook. It is a work in progress, even policies or a work in progress. Policies are not reinforced concrete, and they always should be revisited. But this represents the work that Doctor Edwards and her staff have,  have been involved with in the past year. As you know, we she sends out weekly newsletters that go out to all the parents and the staff in our, in our district. It has quite a collaborative initiative going on with the Fish Library and other civic organizations. So very, very pleased with, Claremont Early Childhood Program. If money wasn't an issue and I had a magic wand, I would have a universal age 3 to 5 early childhood program for every child, including lunch in the Claremont community. And we would it would just be amazing.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We've seen a great improvement with full day kindergarten that was implemented in 2015. The first grade teachers in 2016 couldn't believe the skill level that the children were coming

[9850-241] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Doctor Goodwin' [7]; gives superinte | 2018-06-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: with, Claremont Early Childhood Program. If money wasn't an issue and I had a magic wand, I would have a universal age 3 to 5 early childhood program for every child, including lunch in the Claremont community. And we would it would just be amazing.
TEXT> We've seen a great improvement with full day kindergarten that was implemented in 2015. The first grade teachers in 2016 couldn't believe the skill level that the children were coming in to in the first grade with. So we anticipate the early childhood program doing the same. And know this, that many of the children in this program are identified, which means that they are required to have services age three and above. So if budgetary challenges asked anyone to think, do we really have we really afford this program? It would cost more. Not to have the program by providing services for the required children outside of Claremont. So this isn't something that's nice. It's essential, but it does benefit. Are not identified children. And what I'm pleased about unlike prior years, it's Claremont children, not just children who have access to the program by their parents automobile. And we also now have transportation, which has made an enormous difference. We have a waiting list on this program.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Jason and Caroline.

[9850-249] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [314], [387]; sup | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: I think I agree, Michelle.
TEXT> So I would just like to say that my very first vote on this Claremont School Board was to change up and actually start the Baby Cardinal program, and it was a really rough vote. It was my it was green as a green and it didn't feel very good to do. However, since then, the amazing amount of  quality that these children are receiving and all of these great things, that it's just wonderful. So hats off to you guys for really making that work. And, you know, taking a really great step for the community and for the children and.
NEXT> Unidentified: Making sure. I was just.

[9850-278] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (states the board gave her signing aut | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: I.
TEXT> Would not be able to tell you the date has also signed authority for me to sign on behalf of the superintendent prior to anything else that happened with the transition of leadership for grant purposes. So we both have the same level of signing authority on grants.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Thank you for clarification.

[9850-328] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (states the board gave her signing aut | 2018-06-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: in the same boat talking about that stuff. And so that was something that came up was, are you are you counting, you know, when you're doing your teacher student ratios here, are we counting all personnel, including the cook and the cleaner and the.
TEXT> Well, when we've talked about student teacher ratio at this table and we've talked about, for instance, last winter we talked about the kindergarten class sizes at Bluff Elementary School. We were talking about the certified teacher in the classroom, the classroom teacher, and the total number of children.  We were not including special educators, para educators, or any other building staff  in those numbers. It's when we talk here at this table  around student teacher ratio. It is the classroom teacher to the total number of children, even at the high school level. And so our largest class size this year,  I. Believe. Was in the mid 20s, across the entire district, there might have been a section of high school that was higher than that that I'm not recalling at the moment, but on average we are mid teens to mid 20s. In terms of classroom teacher  and number of students. There may be other adults in that room, but in terms of classroom teacher and number of students. That's where we run.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: When you when you, the special education teachers who may not have a classroom, if they're added to the mix, the ratio decreases. But it truly it just going by

[9850-331] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Doctor Goodwin' [7]; gives superinte | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: There.
TEXT> But certain certain. As we all know, there is children with different needs and in some cases it's in the best interests of all. If we have a smaller class size because of the needs of the class.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And I guess that was where I was trying to figure out, you know, is this the state or federal looking at it as student ratio differently than we are?

[9853-180] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair and Unity School Board chair (addressed 'Sarah' [223 | 2018-06-14
PREV> Mary Woodman: Prudence McCormick. Yes and no. On Bob and Craig. Absent.
TEXT> So, the, decision that was made in the nonpublic meeting is that the SA six and the superintendent, Middleton and Goodwin, regret to inform you that it's necessary for us to part ways. Much good has been accomplished over the last several years. All for the benefit of the students and taxpayers. The parties wish each other the best in the future. And we as a board wish to highlight as many contributions to, say, six, especially the implementation of full day kindergarten implementation of the I ready. Student and progress monitoring program, which is supported improvements in student academic growth as well as his tireless self-advocacy work towards equal funding and access for all schools.
NEXT> Unidentified: Did you.

[9853-184] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (reads his letter of resignation as superintende | 2018-06-14
PREV> Unidentified: Want to.
TEXT> Thank you? Thank you. I would like to read a statement that the dress to the saw six board. That is indicated as a letter of resignation dated June 14th, 2018. Please accept my resignation as Superintendent of Saw six, effective on June 32nd, 2018. I want to thank the citizens of Claremont and Unity, our parents, especially our students and past school board members, for allowing me to serve as your Superintendent of schools. As I reflect back on my tenure, I am very pleased and proud of the accomplishments that resulted from seven years, seven consecutive years of professional and personal relationships. Working with Saw six residents, staff, and students. Some of these accomplishments include  training all administrators to consistently observe and evaluate personnel to support improvement, as well as sustain a culture of accountability. Energy conservation protocols that have been saving hundreds of thousands of dollars annually. School culture A school culture based on the mindset that everyone has the right to feel respected and the responsibility to treat others with respect. In my office, there is a large poster that shows two young female students who now are students at Stevens High School, and when they were in the elementary school, there was a picture taken of them that they actually made and wrote the phrase that I have just read, and that's been the mantra.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And there was a copy of that put in every essay six school. That has been the mindset is how we treat each other and our responsibility to do that.

[9853-185] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (reads his letter of resignation as superintende | 2018-06-14
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: two young female students who now are students at Stevens High School, and when they were in the elementary school, there was a picture taken of them that they actually made and wrote the phrase that I have just read, and that's been the mantra.
TEXT> And there was a copy of that put in every essay six school. That has been the mindset is how we treat each other and our responsibility to do that. I also addressed the lack of clarity involving academic expectations. I corrected a history of deferred maintenance with school facilities. I confronted annual budgetary shortfalls, and it was annual. By using a strategic restructuring approach instead of eliminating worthwhile programs. I established working collaboratively, collaboratively with the city school board city council meetings. I also clarified K to five academic expectations for writing and mathematics. We've been discussing that publicly for the past few years, also supported a multiyear instructional technology plan to address technology inadequacies. Seven years ago, the inadequacies of instructional technology and Claremont were beyond horrific. Renovation of Stevens High School. The construction of Unity Elementary School, implementing full day kindergarten after a year long feasibility study, working with the community and staff, a criminal offense. Background rec record check law was established. We no longer are taking a person's word about their background. We now have access to ensure that every man and woman we hire are the kind of adults we want, with our children and with our colleagues.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Before, that was not the case, and an event in 2014 was a horrific reminder of that. Now all children and all staff have a better chance of being in

[9853-265] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6; appointed Acting Superintendent at th | 2018-06-14
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I just want to ask the question, Corey, would you be able to do a full year as a, as the filling in term supervisor without us having to do a search?
TEXT> As I sit here tonight, I'll, I'm willing to do an acting superintendent position and help in this transition to find an interim. And so. I don't, I, I don't see how a full year is necessarily in the best interest of the district. I think that I have a lot of opinions, but I'm going to keep most of them to myself. But I think, that I'm more than willing to help in the transition and be an acting superintendent this summer until we can find a solid interim in place. But there's just there's a lot of factors, and.
NEXT> Sara Lowe: Rebecca and Frank, and.

[9853-947] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; SAU 6 Board member ('Rebecca and Fr | 2018-06-14
PREV> Unidentified: Hear retreat that's not you know it's different. I've never done one as a board. So.
TEXT> I will be unable to make any Saturday secondary to my children's running my life.
NEXT> Unidentified: What about Sundays in July? We have the first eight, 15th, 22nd and 20. End.

[9876-6] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity member) (calls to order [0], asks 'Mary' to c | 2018-06-28
PREV> Mary Woodman: We need any more?
TEXT> Yeah. Before we begin, I'd like to read a statement. That's just setting the tone. Well, I hope we'll set the tone for my tenure as chairman. Probably should have read it last time when you. Before you elected me. But now you're stuck.  But I just want to speak to my ideals for how I. How I see the board performing. So if you'll indulge me, it'll just take a minute, and then we'll move on with the agenda. Our board has a great responsibility to the district to make sound decisions regarding our children's education, and to be good stewards of the taxpayer, provided educational funding. Our conduct must be above reproach, and thus our decision making process must be deliberate, principled, transparent and conducted fully in the public domain. All board members should plan to attend each meeting fully prepared to discuss all items on the agenda and to bring their well, their own well-considered thoughts and ideas to bear on each subject. I will work with the acting and interim superintendents to make sure that you are all provided all information, in a timely manner, to enable you to prepare for each meetings to suck.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Excuse me? Discussions and decisions. I'm very much looking forward to working with all of you to create a collaborative team environment that promotes, promotes, open communication, critical review and

[9876-7] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity member) (calls to order [0], asks 'Mary' to c | 2018-06-28
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: well, their own well-considered thoughts and ideas to bear on each subject. I will work with the acting and interim superintendents to make sure that you are all provided all information, in a timely manner, to enable you to prepare for each meetings to suck.
TEXT> Excuse me? Discussions and decisions. I'm very much looking forward to working with all of you to create a collaborative team environment that promotes, promotes, open communication, critical review and consideration of all ideas presented and principal, transparent, consensus oriented decision making. Our near-term focus must be on demonstrating professionalism in our conduct and decision making, to engender the trust and of our constituents and our ability to fulfill. Fulfill our role of ensuring the best possible education for our children. And one thing I would like to highlight is I'm I'm going to promote that consensus thing because I think we're a stronger board if we agree on how we're moving forward, which is why I think preparation for each meeting is so important. So with that in mind,  let's move to the agenda you all have in front of you. Are there any amendments to be made? Anything that anybody wants to add to the agenda? I have something I'd like to add to the agenda  in your email this week. You got a draft press release, and I would like to discuss that tonight.  So I would like to add that to the agenda  as the new item and move the meeting time limit discussion to F. Can I make that motion?
NEXT> Mary Woodman: Okay.

[9876-87] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 ('Now that Mike's here' [126] before his | 2018-06-28
PREV> Michael O'Neill: So that that increased the revenues in 1617 by it ended up being $44,000. So you end up with a fund balance estimated, I mean, a fund balance at June 30th, 2017, not estimated to be 212,004 2433 questions on how I got to that.
TEXT> The next line is something that maybe people were not aware of. So if you go to the third page of that packet, this is a page, page 35 and 36 of the withdrawal plan that was accepted by the Department of Education on behalf of the school district. And it does call in number three, disposition of assets and liabilities on that page that the last sentence says the transition Committee will be responsible for the calculation of the actual fiscal year 17 fiscal year 17  fund balance and will be responsible for arranging with Saw its disposition calculated 11.4%. What that means is corner should have been putting money in at an average of 11.4% for several years. So because we have a fund balance, they're entitled to receive that money back because the way the saw works is basically the money is carried over, but still belongs to the districts that make up that. So the calculation, based on a $212,000 fund balance, would be a return estimated payment to corners for this year. Of the six 3017 fund balance, totaling 24,000 to 1637. Then we go to that, we go to projected revenue 1718. And these, I think, are going to go up a little more because I just I think I got some more indirect costs coming in from unity. But essentially, if you look at the other packet with the grants management report on front, it looks like this.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: If you if you go to page three, you jump down to the expenditures and you look at the total amount in the fourth column over from the left, it

[9876-275] Nate | SAU 6 staff, human resources (chair: 'Yes. Nate.' [355] -> [357-359];  | 2018-06-28
PREV> Unidentified: This is.
TEXT> The farmer. I look up at the best interests of the district and the best interests of those that are going to be joining us. Just real quick, I the one year thing, we have to also just semantics really, but, we're down to maybe even specifying after July 1st. That is for the duration of the school year. In order to end on June 30th, one year implies 12 months, which puts us out into the next into next fiscal year. So something to think about.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Well taken, because we're looking to have a new superintendent by July 1st and the interim won't be here till August. So it will not be a year. So yes.

[9906-82] Steven Horsky | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont) ('Steve.' [52,122,343,382,709] each fol | 2018-07-12
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: plan. What I'm talking about is what does this school board, what's our five year plan for our actions, and what do we want to ensure? Happy? I'm going to Steve has had his hand up for a while. And then Michelle, it's your turn.
TEXT> The maybe to clarify my previous statement, it's not to tell each district how to run their school. That's not the point I was trying to make. But at some point we need to recognize between Claremont and Unity that the s a is a joint body. We can't keep working as the left arm, not knowing what the right arm is doing. That gets us nowhere. It leaves a lot of times spinning the wheels. At some point, we're going to have to realize that a whole three miles down the road for in West Unity and, their neighbor that they're also we should have the same goals as a district for our student achievement at the same level. And that does filter down to the district level to some extent. And I think that's one of the biggest things that's been lacking in this board, is just living in this town for a long time. You see that unity in Claremont doesn't meet very often. Well, we're meeting a lot now because of a change we made. Well, that should have been going on before a change that was made. So we need to start working together, get a blanket and then you subdivide. You have to have the top of the tree getting the light because that's feeding the rest of the tree. So that's where we kind of need to start.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Michelle and then Rebecca.

[9906-101] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity member) (calls to order, runs agenda; motion  | 2018-07-12
PREV> Unidentified: You know, each.
TEXT> School has their goals related to student performance.
NEXT> Unidentified: And.

[9906-106] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity member) (fragments of the chair's three-goals | 2018-07-12
PREV> Unidentified: Well, so with that thought, yeah.
TEXT> What I would like to request, I mean, everybody is here. For their own reasons. We all have our own thoughts on our own agendas and our own  objectives for being here. What I would like to hear. Forget what I was thinking, but but by. The retreat is that each of you put. Together your top. Three objectives. If you will. Or goals for what you'd like to accomplish, for what you'd like this school board to accomplish.  For educating our children. I mean, ultimately, we're here to make sure that that everybody in Claremont and Unity receives an appropriate education. And so why are you here? What what goals do. You have? And let's use that as a starting point to set goals. For the for the school board, I think a strategic plan is going to be a lengthy process. I think it should involve the superintendent. And so I, I think it's going to take us a year or two to do that. But we, we should at least start establishing some core values as a group. And if we can start doing that at our retreat that would be fabulous. So if you could each just jot down three, three main goals and objectives or objectives that you have and bring those to the retreat, I think that'll that'll provide us a place to start. I don't think we need a motion for that. Do we know? Okay, but you're all charged.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: You all have your science.

[9907-35] Ben | SAU 6 special education administrator, new role from July 2, 2018 (int | 2018-07-18
PREV> Ben: is that just conceptually the way I want to think about this or I think what I would like us to conceptualize it is that we are looking at an out of district placement that is just geographically happens to be located in Claremont, right?
TEXT> And we can speak more about that later. Secondly, our goal here is to support students with significant emotional and behavioral challenges.  Thirdly, we we want to reduce adverse impact on learning for all students. And there is impact. I know that's been discussed by the board in the past.  Number four. This is a biggie. We want to reduce our district placement costs. Both want to save on tuition and transportation transportation costs. And Mike will speak to the details of that in a bit. There were five. We're looking at no additional cost to the taxpayer.  Number six, we're looking at no additional burden on building  administration, faculty or staff at this point. So, I guess we'd like to bring Mr. Kelly. If you wouldn't mind coming up and saying a few words about the program and and then we're happy to take questions.
NEXT> Mike Kell: This is a first. First of all, I am Mike Cal. I'm a retired administrator from Pennsylvania and New Jersey. With a considerable background in, forensic counseling, therapy and things

[9907-36] Mike Kell | Bridges Program / Meadows School, Brattleboro Retreat, presenter (self | 2018-07-18
PREV> Ben: looking at no additional burden on building administration, faculty or staff at this point. So, I guess we'd like to bring Mr. Kelly. If you wouldn't mind coming up and saying a few words about the program and and then we're happy to take questions.
TEXT> This is a first. First of all, I am Mike Cal. I'm a retired administrator from Pennsylvania and New Jersey.  With a considerable background in, forensic counseling, therapy and things of that nature. So it was a natural fit four years ago for me to come to the Brattleboro retreat when I retired.  What our program is, is about is looking at what your needs are and looking at the needs of the communities. I served ten years on the school board, two different places, so I understand the pressure and the importance of bringing a quality program into your district to reduce the cost of providing the care for these children who are very unique and very special and very caring.  When we look at this, we're looking at setting the program up. What do we do at Brattleboro? At Brattleboro? We have a very trained staff. We have school psychologists, social workers and clinical managers that are social worker threes. And we have certified teachers, both special ed and regular ed. Along with that, we have really trained our mental health workers, which shifted that to call now mental health workers school because it's more appropriate.
NEXT> Mike Kell: One of my battles that I've been working on there is shifting the mental health hospital of the retreat away from what we do as a school, because there are

[9907-37] Mike Kell | Bridges Program / Meadows School, Brattleboro Retreat, presenter (self | 2018-07-18
PREV> Mike Kell: workers and clinical managers that are social worker threes. And we have certified teachers, both special ed and regular ed. Along with that, we have really trained our mental health workers, which shifted that to call now mental health workers school because it's more appropriate.
TEXT> One of my battles that I've been working on there is shifting the mental health hospital of the retreat away from what we do as a school, because there are two different things. It is one, but it's different. And the care of the bridges. Kids go home at night. The residential students and inpatient students don't. They're there. So as we looked at as Chris and myself and Corey sat down and looked at what we were doing,  and Middleton was on one of the meetings to I believe what we're looking at doing is building a program here in town that will provide the supports that the very thing that we do. And at the retreat here in Claremont and putting two types of programs in the first type is our level three. And the level three program is geared towards students who have a higher acuity level. They need more support. Their supports are with 1 to 1 right within the classroom. Their supports with therapeutic needs. Their supports with therapeutic groups. We flavor this through. If any of you is aware of Marsha Garcia, when is zones of regulation social thinking theory? We do a lot of that, and we really spend a lot of time on trauma based  mental health issues and tying in how they impact executive function of our students, because in reality, that's what's happening, that they've exposed to so much trauma that they're not able to access their executive function skills.
NEXT> Mike Kell: Along with that, they have individual education plans. So now we have to marry the two together. And some days we don't hit the books. Some days we don't hit

[9907-38] Mike Kell | Bridges Program / Meadows School, Brattleboro Retreat, presenter (self | 2018-07-18
PREV> Mike Kell: spend a lot of time on trauma based mental health issues and tying in how they impact executive function of our students, because in reality, that's what's happening, that they've exposed to so much trauma that they're not able to access their executive function skills.
TEXT> Along with that, they have individual education plans. So now we have to marry the two together. And some days we don't hit the books. Some days we don't hit the school. We hit the where the child is at. And so that's our level three program. And we want to be able to bring it here.  We talked about it at length about what that would look like and what the impact of the students would be. And part of that impact is, is you're talking about a lot of supports for students that are not our highest with acuity problems, but pretty close to it. And so the second part of that is our level two program. So when we first started having a conversation last year with David and Chris, it was around looking at a level two child who is either stepping down from out of district placement from an A level three position or higher acuity. And what we're saying is that this child is ready to start the transition back into the school district. The other part of that, and when we talked about that was a step up program, and that step up program would take these students that are displaying or showing trauma. They're not able to function in your classrooms. There's no learning going on.
NEXT> Mike Kell: And more importantly, they're disrupting their peers. So what is happening there is you need your district needs to look at a sort of an inexpensive way, if you will,

[9907-39] Mike Kell | Bridges Program / Meadows School, Brattleboro Retreat, presenter (self | 2018-07-18
PREV> Mike Kell: district. The other part of that, and when we talked about that was a step up program, and that step up program would take these students that are displaying or showing trauma. They're not able to function in your classrooms. There's no learning going on.
TEXT> And more importantly, they're disrupting their peers. So what is happening there is you need your district needs to look at a sort of an inexpensive way, if you will,  of assessing these children from a mental health perspective. That's that step up, step down program. The step up would be having the level two kids assessed 45 to 90 days. Try to work through what the needs are of the student, try to look at skill development and skill development, and look at really what's happening with within that child.  Our our social worker will be dealing with that piece and focusing on those pieces. So the level three is one that you're taking your probably your more expensive children that are out of district, bringing them into district. And you'll see the figures that that Mike and Ben and I worked on. Those are pretty much true to what we do based on what the needs we feel to bring this service into your district. We need those those numbers there. So that's kind of what the program is. And sort of like a nutshell.  I can take questions. Yes, sir.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I want to say I think this is great. I think this is something we've needed, and I'm glad we're looking at going in this direction. That being said, the

[9907-47] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], asks Mrs. Wo | 2018-07-18
PREV> Jason Benware: Okay.
TEXT> I guess I don't have to recognize. Myself to it.  So I was working at the high school and we developed some alternative programing at the elementary schools, in the middle school and the high school. And one of the big, bugaboo we had was the entrance criteria and exit criteria for this program. And I'm curious,  who are these kids and and how do they and what are the expectations for them?
NEXT> Mike Kell: That program, if I recall, from from Corey, was not successful. And the reason why it wasn't successful is that criteria piece. Oftentimes when school districts do a lot of

[9907-56] Mike Kell | Bridges Program / Meadows School, Brattleboro Retreat, presenter (self | 2018-07-18
PREV> Jason Benware: Yeah.
TEXT> Part of the transition down and up  is we've talked about when student A is either transitioning in from an out of the district placement into this program. Then as they're getting ready to transition back into what of schools you identify and to have is to bring in some of your staff, work alongside with us so that they develop the skill sets and the knowledge of the child, and they can go back into the school with a child to provide the supports. So those are the things that we're looking at developing.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. That makes me happy.

[9907-63] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mike, are we doing a superinten | 2018-07-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Let's get this working first. I get it, I get it. So I know that, if we approved this tonight, I think it's on the front burner for Ben because he wants to start hiring, so I think.
TEXT> Well, can I talk about the money? That's my favorite thing to talk about. Thanks, Mike. So. So, basically, I know this looks a little busy, but when you go through it, it's actually not that bad. So. So what happened is we we we we started having discussions around having  one level two classroom. We looked at a level two classroom. And if you look up top, the cost of student per day for that was $285. So so we came up with a number and it was it was a number that, you know, was around 60, 55 and $60,000 in cost of audience. And that's when we started having a discussion. Well, if we look at our need, maybe we really need to have a level three room. So then we were going to we did the cost of a level three room. So if you look at the the cost of level three room down here, you basically the cost of all of the level three is $415 a day. So if you look at the calculation the level three is six students  177 days, 415 per day is a total of $440,730. It would cost us to send those kids over to Brattleboro for just tuition.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: No extra services, no transportation. That's just tuition fees. And the cost of that room, if you go down to the bottom, was going to be around $234,000 with operating

[9907-64] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mike, are we doing a superinten | 2018-07-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: of the level three is $415 a day. So if you look at the calculation the level three is six students 177 days, 415 per day is a total of $440,730. It would cost us to send those kids over to Brattleboro for just tuition.
TEXT> No extra services, no transportation. That's just tuition fees.  And the cost of that room, if you go down to the bottom, was going to be around $234,000 with operating expenses, we're going to be $240,000. So there was a cost of ordnance. And I use a cost of ordnance because it's not a savings, because some of these kids are not out of district right now. Some of these kids may have gone out of district at a future date. And and it can be disruptive at times. So that's why I'm saying cost avoidance because I'm really not saving money unless I budgeted it. So that would that would actually give us a projected net budget savings of 200,000, $41 for just having the level three room. Then we went back to the discussions of, well, you know, we still have a lot of level two kids that we could service at the same time. And what would the staffing model look like if we reduce the to if we added that classroom? So what we did is we added that we came up with a plan to add a level two classroom as well.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Again, with six kids, the cost of per day on the on the level, on that level of student is $285. So you see up top the the cost of

[9907-66] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mike, are we doing a superinten | 2018-07-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: I think that we can avoid sending kids out of district because, like Mike said, if they're being educated at the school here, they're much more likely to go back into the mainstream once they start getting on that bus and riding over the Brattleboro.
TEXT> They don't go half the time because they don't like the bus ride or whatever the case may be. This is going to be a much better education for the kids, and it's going to save us money. Questions on that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Go ahead. Rebecca. Rebecca and Steve.

[9907-78] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member ('Steve, do you feel like your questions | 2018-07-18
PREV> Ben: the learning of the other kiddos. I think. I think at one point the principals, along with Corey, identified 19 students, between the three buildings that that would be slotted, so to speak, for our district placement or, you know, you know, intense, tense need.
TEXT> So whereby the concern rises is, okay, so we're going to take care of a total of 12 out of 19 at this point.  That's you know, that's a start. Yeah. Right. The the concern I have is, is that I also feel even though they're contracted services, we're kind of double dipping a little bit because as a district we are paying  for psychologist,  you know, and other mental health professionals inside the district. So then we're contracting out for additional support that we're already paying for because those people are in place in the school system already. So my concern is, is that there's a little bit of double dipping, in my opinion, going on, and I'm sure you'll be able to clarify that. But also, if we're going to go into this, I think we need to look at it, the angle of servicing, what we do have in place, because I don't think it's a proper use of, wow, there's a savings. I don't know if there's a proper way to basically say, well, we're going to do this for these kids. These kids are potential. And then they erupt and then we end up having to go out of district because we don't have the rumor capability to handle it. So that's what kind of goes back to Jason's point of how how this can expand, because we're talking about two classrooms totaling  a whole six children and nine adults being housed.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: 012. 1212 but two classrooms.

[9907-84] Mike Kell | Bridges Program / Meadows School, Brattleboro Retreat, presenter (self | 2018-07-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sorry.
TEXT> One of the things in being an educator for, For Forever was for me to grasp the concept that we as educators try to push academic literacy with these kids who are not ready to receive it. That's the executive function, part of the trauma that's impairing their ability to learn. So when you look at that, you need that support of people who know how to do it. So if you know about Garcia when his work, you know that there is some ground place where they play. We have our kindergartners right now sitting and playing because socially they can't play with other students. They just need the staff members to interact with them. It's all not predetermined, but it's all part of the program, part of the planning process, because we know where we want to take that child. And our belief is that you can teach the children, but you can't make them be students. Try working that out. And so the uniqueness of our program is really preparing through the executive function, through the trauma, through the learning disabilities, is how do they be, how are they able to manage, how are they going to be able to cope, and how are they going to be students and be successful?
NEXT> Mike Kell: And that that's what we're about bringing the success of the children. So that continuing of care is, Frank said, is so important to be able to know that child,

[9907-85] Mike Kell | Bridges Program / Meadows School, Brattleboro Retreat, presenter (self | 2018-07-18
PREV> Mike Kell: is really preparing through the executive function, through the trauma, through the learning disabilities, is how do they be, how are they able to manage, how are they going to be able to cope, and how are they going to be students and be successful?
TEXT> And that that's what we're about bringing the success of the children. So that continuing of care is, Frank said, is so important to be able to know that child, support that child, integrate with the family members, whether it's a gal, whether it's DCF worker, whether it's a biological parent. That's what we do, too, because you can't work with a child and expect to put that same child back into the family if the family is not ready to receive it, and they're on old tapes so they can unwind that and grasp it. So that's basically.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I think it's prudent that you're starting off at a manageable number. I mean, if we see this is working and successful, you can always go up. I mean, you

[9907-92] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mike, are we doing a superinten | 2018-07-18
PREV> Steven Horsky: we're going to jump in and get our feet wet, we need to make sure we're supplying for what we need. And I the pilot idea is great, but I'm still concerned about the the seven other children that are possibly identified at this point.
TEXT> Yeah. And and I think that the part of this is going to be the ability for us to evaluate some of these students using the Brattleboro staff.  And perhaps we don't have 19 students that really need to be in this program. I mean, I think we have 19 disruptive students, but we haven't identified with those. 19 really belong. And I think that part of this, too, is going to be a quicker transition back so that we can start transitioning kids out of this program as quickly as a couple of months after they get in there. If we determine that they don't need all those supports because they're still in the same school, and that I think that's part of the capacity thing, too, is, you know, if we build it for 19 and then we only need 15,  well, then we're paying for people we don't need.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Well, then that creates another question of mine because we've got partial identification of 19. Then we're going to go with them. We haven't done a full identification. Now part

[9907-121] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mike, are we doing a superinten | 2018-07-18
PREV> Unidentified: All right.
TEXT> The first thing I'd like to talk about is, is the  Maple Avenue principal. Corey  sent out an email, I believe, to the whole board. I'm very excited to announce that Kathleen Bonnell has been selected as a finalist for the role of Maple Avenue principal. Miss Pinnell has was unanimous selection of the search committee, which was comprised of both staff and parents. She has extensive knowledge in our community, of our community, our students, our curriculum and his work closely with the Maple Avenue staff and her role as Sussex Curriculum Coordinator. Miss Pinnell has demonstrated a high level of excellence in her performance in her 20 plus year tenure, and a district will be a great leader for Maple Avenue School. She is my nomination and to you at the next board meeting attached, you'll find a revised agenda for that meeting. And I just I can't say enough about how much Kathleen's helped us out with the curriculum as she came in and really helped to develop and deliver that curriculum. And I think she'll continue to do a great job as Maple Avenue principal and not to put her on the spot, but she is here if anybody has any out there. Thank you for coming up. We don't have to come up if nobody has questions. Oh, anybody have any questions?
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. How are you? Thank you so much.

[9907-214] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (asks whether the program can expand [69 | 2018-07-18
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> And I don't know if this is the case or not, but I think it would be, kind of nice for all of the educators involved if they don't, when they get the I know all the kids get the policies and they have to sign off on receiving it. Do all of the teachers do the same? Is my question, because I think that if indeed they do, then they're sort of.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: There's a teacher handbook in a in a student handbook.

[9928-65] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity School Board member) (presides; nominates Pfe | 2018-07-26
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: most recently for stints as interim superintendent in New Hampshire after his retirement from the Littleton school system. His superintendent certification is in the state of New Hampshire, is current, and he is considerable experience and knowledge in the challenges that New Hampshire schools face.
TEXT> So I believe Doctor Pfeiffer's knowledge and experience make him the best candidate to meet our needs for interim superintendent. Intendant and I would like to nominate him for that position on behalf of the interim Intendant search committee, contingent upon successful negotiations.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I move that we accept Marjorie's nomination of Doctor Pfeiffer for the position of interim superintendent, contingent upon successful negotiations.

[9928-78] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent nominee, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Doctor Keith Pfe | 2018-07-26
PREV> Keith Pfeifer: scale assessment. I did some research also did some item development while I was there. Left there, went to Timberline as director of secondary education under Doug MacDonald, and had the middle school and high school. And then we had an elementary coordinator as well.
TEXT> Left Timberline to become superintendent and Sanborn.  And at that point I thought I was going to retire, but I went to Grantham. Enjoyed Grantham immensely. Small school was we had just done renovations and additions to the Grantham Village school. Worked on a new contract. You may know that their high school and middle school students go to Lebanon. So that was a lot of fun. And I went to Littleton. After that, I went to Monadnock. I worked have worked a little bit with Nasdaq, and  I also consult with the center for Secondary School Redesign.  A lot of us are were with Ted Sizer  for many years. So it was a joy. And  and I did a small stint as an interim. They had lost their superintendent. So  I was in Farmington.  And the last couple of years I have worked for CS and last year I took some time with my family and my sister, who was not well, and she needed support  with her kids. So I became a young parent again. So that. Was fun.  That's essentially me.  Some of you can have seen my resume. I've published. I also have taught special education at the University of Maine and Farmington and also at Penn State. I teach in their World College, which is their online version of of graduate and undergraduate education. So one of the fun things that keep me connected to young people and young teachers, I like that.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Thank you. Are there any questions for Doctor Pfeifer? I just wanted to say that I was chatting with him I had in the other room. Yes. It was in

[9928-86] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent nominee, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Doctor Keith Pfe | 2018-07-26
PREV> Carolyn Towle: I think our date is. 14 to where, We're coordinating with other school districts. And. Pittsfield Mutual had. Immediate Franklin and. Right. 22 districts came. But so the movement is there. And I'd like to see you help us along in that whole process. So,
TEXT> I know Andrew Wallenstein tried arguing your case  very well. I want to make sure, you know, here. You know, so I'm certainly 1201. We know if you ten with you and fight for what's right for kids and for you, the taxpayer. That's right.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Thank you. Anybody else? Michelle. They seem to be having trouble.

[9950-21] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced by LeClair as 'Doctor Pfeiff | 2018-08-15
PREV> Keith Pfeifer: know what our dollar will raise as compared to to or Lebanon or Bedford or Bo, you know, is, a large differential and particularly I think it's more acute because they're taking some of the supplemental aid that we've had away at 4% a year.
TEXT> So if nothing else, if we can get them to stay put, it will be beneficial. It's about five, three, 225,000 that we're losing. And that once again goes back to having to raise it at the local level. And that seems unfair. And, So it was good evening. I think it was good description. There were probably 200 plus people there, and I was told maybe 20 plus districts there. So. Other than that, you know, meeting certainly  a trying to get out to all the schools. I was at the high school today and at Maple and, so have two more to do tomorrow. And so we're working at trying to get. So I'm understanding where they are and what our needs are. You know, I think we're meeting as ministers to where are we and where are we going and what do we need to do to provide a high quality education and one that prepares our students for this 21st century, global, complex world that they'll be entering? You know, there are many multinational companies around us, you know, and they may be talking to somebody in Hong Kong or Indonesia or wherever.  Which, you know, that was 20, 25 years ago was not the case. So there's been a big change, but we want to make sure they can compete in that world.
NEXT> Keith Pfeifer: You know, Corey really handled this, did a good job. We did have one student in the summer program at Disney, who fell on in the on the swingset at

[9950-25] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' [42-43, 329]; 'Cary' [5 | 2018-08-15
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Program is a p. I'll I'll come back that.
TEXT> Essentially it is  an opportunity to provide universal lunch for every child. So based on the direct cert rate  for Bluff Elementary School, which is different than the free and reduced lunch rate, the direct rate is the number of families who qualify for  state assistance of some kind. Any kind some kind of state assistance  based on that rate, bluff qualifies. And so we're looking at an opportunity this year to offer universal lunch at bluff.  Our current projections of revenue are based off of 62% participation in the universal hot lunch. So that still allows for 38% of students to bring a lunch from home if they choose to. And  we should see about $2,000 in revenue from that program. And then an additional this year we paid $2,600  of, unpaid balances. So students who chose to get a hot lunch for whatever reason and then weren't able to pay their balance. So we should see  at 62% participation, around  $4,600 of revenue from the school lunch program at bluff. And if that participation rate increases, meaning more families take advantage of the hot lunch program because it will be free for every family at bluff, then the revenue generation will increase from there.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So our rates at Maple and Disney are close. They have not crossed the threshold for direct search yet. To be eligible for those two schools to have a universal

[9950-33] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Correct, we will be there'll be some revenue generated and the revenue can't be transferred to the general fund, but it can be utilized for other food service expenditures or to buy equipment and stuff like that.
TEXT> It's kind of a no lose situation, isn't it? Okay. I just wanted to clarify that I was hearing correctly that we, the kids get free lunch and we make money.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: It is difficult to get over the we have the direct.

[9950-74] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: Control?
TEXT> Local control? You should have control over how you fund your schools, which tends to be what I hear coming from people who already have what they need. And he's one of them. So I did a little research, and I was like, well, what about Deerfield? So I looked it up.  So Deerfield, you know, when we talk about, burden to pay. So Deerfield median home income is or median  per capita income is about 34,000 $38,000 a year, whereas Claremont is 24,000.  You know, just that in and of itself, as far as burden to pay goes, means that even if we were paying the exact same tax rate, which we are not, they're paying about $22 1000,  we're paying almost $42,000. A thousand means that I find it very hard to believe that legislators are coming from these communities, are going to feel any real reason to change what's going on.  And from the way that he responded about how Abraham Lincoln wrote on the back of a shovel with a bunch of coal. And so, you know, why does a broken chalkboard have anything to do with the kids education that that hit home really well, to me, that, I don't think we're going to get half of our legislators to really care about this plight. So I think talking about other alternatives really makes a lot of sense.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Steve.

[9950-116] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' [42-43, 329]; 'Cary' [5 | 2018-08-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Have you like in a perfect world, let's just pretend we could have all the perfect people. Have you guys priced it out to see what that would be and how it relates to sending out to other districts? I'm sure you have, but just.
TEXT> Not not specifically. So that's something that I think  we started down that path. We had the conversation with Brattleboro,  that seemed to be a more viable option for the time frame we were on. So we sort of put the chicken scratch aside of  mapping out what we think it should be.  And so we need to revisit that now and, and really put those numbers together prior to going into this budget season. So we can have those conversations at this table with some confidence and, and coherence to know what our kids need. Who who are we really talking about? What are their needs and how can we move this forward?  Whether we look at other providers and contract them in, send students out or create our own? So I think  I don't know that Frank actually said this, but  but one of the things to keep in mind is  and you alluded this to this tube, Rebecca, is sometimes we've done things in house historically  and intentionally or unintentionally cut corners because of funding or lack thereof.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: With a program like this for the needs of the students that we would be identifying to, to receive services. That's not where you can cut funding if you want

[9950-117] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' [42-43, 329]; 'Cary' [5 | 2018-08-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: know that Frank actually said this, but but one of the things to keep in mind is and you alluded this to this tube, Rebecca, is sometimes we've done things in house historically and intentionally or unintentionally cut corners because of funding or lack thereof.
TEXT> With a program like this for the needs of the students that we would be identifying to, to receive services. That's not where you can cut funding if you want the program to be successful in the long term. So when when we do come back with some conversation around, okay, this is what it would cost to do in house, those numbers are going to be large and scary, and I'm just putting it out there now. Because we it's not an area where you can say, well, I, I don't really need the, the therapeutics.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: You need trained mental health workers, all of that. You do.

[9950-122] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you.
TEXT> Numbers are large and scary with the numbers to send students out are also large and scary, as well as the effect on the student that has to travel 45 minutes each way or, you know.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Not to mention the students who are in the classroom whose learning is being disrupted by those whose needs are not being met because it's not a therapeutic environment.

[9950-159] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (self-identified as chairman [148]) | 2018-08-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: we go there. And so I anticipate, as you mentioned, we'll keep you informed along the way and have those conversations. If we need to have those conversations sooner rather than later, so that we are prepared and informed and transparent. No surprises. No surprises.
TEXT> I have two I want to piggyback on something Steve said, but then I've got another piece. The one of the big differences, I think, between Newport and Claremont is that, Newport Center is pretty shabby. It's had a lot of traffic through it. It really needs an overhaul in the worst way, as opposed to Claremont, where I think what we are looking for relevant programs here in order to get the kids into the programs. So I think there's two very, two very different things. So Newport needs the money, needs the renovation now because they've got to do a renovation. I think what we've got to do is some sort of perhaps a retooling. And with that in mind, the in-kind money, the money we have to come up with is taxpayers, is it? And I don't expect you to know, this is sort of a rhetorical question, but is it possible to take in-kind money for the in-kind money for from an organization such as, Red River, for example, if they were to create an academy here, help us pay for that. Can we use money from them as seed money to offset what the taxpayers?
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I think all ideas are on the table and we need to explore that with the state.

[9950-253] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2018-08-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Okay.
TEXT> So I just want to preface this with my cousin is a heroin addict, so  I understand completely what you're saying. I do want to say, though, I don't feel comfortable with a needle exchange program next to the school. And  I think that there are a lot of variables that go into it, and I really don't want to take the chance, with it being so close to our children.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Steve, I'm sorry. I still really want to hear Miss Lewis's.

[9950-258] Laura Byrne | HIV Resource Center, Lebanon, syringe exchange operator (self-identifi | 2018-08-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I understand.
TEXT> So,  so the fact it yes, it is in proximity to it, to a school, but I don't think that there would be any interaction between the children and the school and the clients. And a lot of people who use those drugs  are ashamed of their drug use. And they're, they're they're just very a lot of people, a lot of our clients are kind of shy and, and careful. So it's not, it's not, there's not I've never had like, I've had people, you know, get a little antsy before, but I've never had like, an annoying somebody being angry or annoyed or  a bad. I mean, in all the since 2010. I've never had like a bad incident. I've never felt afraid. I've never felt afraid of a client. I've never felt threatened in any way.  So, the worst thing actually, that ever happened is a client stole some Narcan, and that was like a that was kind of a big deal. I was disappointed that he didn't just ask me for it, but aside from that. So I think the reality I think sometimes if you don't, if you don't see how it works, it it can you can have a lot of fear because injection drug users are, you know, they have a reputation. But actually in reality, it's it's probably not like that.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Might have one thing to add. And I think it was stated perfectly. Yeah. We've had a needle exchange program but uses up that kind of says it all to

[9950-265] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Okay.
TEXT> Okay. So just an idea. If it's two hours a. Week or two hours twice a week, why couldn't it be two hours? Well, after school was going on,  so so could it be at 5:00 at night? That that really kind of keeps the kids out of it all together.
NEXT> Laura Byrne: Well, that's an interesting possibility, and we'd have to figure that out with respect to staffing. And also whether the center was going to be open. I'm just not sure

[9950-271] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (chair: 'Thank you Melissa' [429, | 2018-08-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Thank you Melissa.
TEXT> So I'm going to apologize. Ahead of time because I was not this is kind of some. New information for me. And so you're going to get my off the cuff, not completely thought out response Steve. So I might not have a fully developed answer for you. I think my philosophy about a needle exchange program is is not an issue here in any way, shape or form. That's that's not my role in the school district, is to have an opinion of that. I think what I would share with the board, as, as you're charged with making this decision is here's what I know. I think the area that you're probably most concerned with is the wooded area between Valley Regional Hospital and is not elementary school that it. I'm I'm just guessing that that's an area physical area that's causing some worry about where things can occur. What I do know about Disney Elementary School is I have an incredibly vigilant staff. I have absolute confidence in them that if if this were to be approved, if there were any concern, I have absolutely no doubt that they're going to put safety of children first.  And I also feel very confident in our in our relationship with the Claremont Police Department and with Peter Wright and the staff of Valley Regional Hospital.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: So, again, you're the policy setters, and I'm going to enforce whatever policy you all set, knowing that that I have great connections with others if they're needed.

[9950-286] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named on this recordin | 2018-08-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sorry. Okay. Stevens high school alternative program handbook.
TEXT> So what I've asked to be passed around is. As I went through what I sent you last week there, I realized one page was missing from the document, and so I rewritten that page. It's now  added into Google  as,  it was in the previous packet, but I felt it was such an important page because it has to do with grading and reporting and phone usage and computer usage and the entire potential removal process. Should a student not be successful at the all program? That I wanted you to be able to see that and weigh in on that as well tonight. So, this handbook is quite a bit different than earlier iterations that we've had for the Alt program in the past.  For the most part, the the greatest difference is in the. Look at how staffing is anticipated, as well as what the daily routine and expectations for the students would be. And so just a brief overview is that we have three teaching positions to and two pair of positions,  and a position where someone would be coordinating the program as well.  The day would run the same time frame, 725 to 206 as the as the high school, but the composition of the day would, would look somewhat different.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And so now that we have one crisis counselor dedicated to the high school, the same individual five days a week, going to dedicate the first hour of her day

[9950-288] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named on this recordin | 2018-08-15
PREV> Patricia Barry: they have, in their file that that will be there so students can set goals for reading levels, math levels, etc. but it'll also give them an opportunity in the beginning of every day to say, what are my social, emotional, and academic goals today?
TEXT> Today in math, in social studies, in English, in science? How am I going to behave today versus yesterday? One of my social interactions with my peers going to be,  how am I going to be a better student today, tomorrow, this semester, this year that PLP will be revisited after lunch and reflected upon. And so and then it was would be determined if students have earned the privilege of afternoon activities outside the program, or whether they need to go back to the drawing board for the afternoon and revisit their academics. So it's very much a kind of a reward system where students need to earn the privilege of phone usage of afternoon activities, of other things like that. But you'll see in the rules and regulations that we've become much stricter. Phones would be deposited at the beginning of the day in one common holding place, with staff turned off and not have access for students.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Use of music is something to be earned for students. Et cetera, etc. they would go from their morning meeting and work with the crisis counselor and goal setting into

[9950-290] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named on this recordin | 2018-08-15
PREV> Patricia Barry: afternoon when we talk about afternoon activities, it's things like accessing the community center, climbing Arrowhead, going downtown and shopping for, for meals, the use and creation of community meals to create a culture of a school within a school in that, in that environment.
TEXT> So students are cooking. They're they're learning table etiquette. They're learning how to set a table, how to eat at a table, how to put a menu together, how to shop and budget in all of those things.  So there's a life skill component for our students built into this program as well, and leaving as much opportunity for the staff to be as creative as they can be, because we know that these students have not been successful in a regular classroom. So doing the same thing over and over again and trying to teach them in the same way has not been successful in the past, is just a lesson in insanity. So how to to deliver these competencies and learning targets in a different way that meets the needs of these particular learners, engages them, meets them at their interest levels, and their emotional levels. Because we also know that many of these students are coming to this program hungry, tired, upset, blown out from what has happened the night before in their homes. And we can't teach them before we de-escalate them. And we deal with those that bag of nails. And once we can get them to a place where they're ready to learn, then we have to also teach them in a different way than we've done in the past.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So that's kind of the basic overview and and what I'm hoping. Also, the other piece is we've spoken with the Doe and we are requesting that this be a

[9950-291] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named on this recordin | 2018-08-15
PREV> Patricia Barry: them before we de-escalate them. And we deal with those that bag of nails. And once we can get them to a place where they're ready to learn, then we have to also teach them in a different way than we've done in the past.
TEXT> So  that's kind of the basic overview and and what I'm hoping. Also, the other piece is we've spoken with the Doe and we are requesting that this be a non special ed program. And so the Doe and the reason for that is we're seeing more and more students who are not identified. They don't have IEPs and it remains a special ed program. We have to maintain a 6040 ratio of students who are identified  more and more students. Many of the students who are coming to us from the middle school, who may have been recommended aren't identified at all, and we're looking at more of a reverse of those percentages, more of a 6040 of non identified students. So the Doe has laid out for us what we need to do. And I've tried to do that through this handbook of explaining the delivery of the curriculum, how we would assess what the day would look like and all the components that the Doe needs to know from us about what this program is, as well as the resource room and the space in that, in that wing that we would dedicate to the delivery of special ed services for those students who do have, I.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And so that's this is hopefully the document that answers all the questions that the Doe says they need to have in order for them to approve this as a

[9950-302] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Do you have any suggestions on other alternatives for. Self-regulation while utilizing music? I do, I don't mean for I don't. I'm not talking about for the high school and talking about for the program.
TEXT> That's kind of a a toss up, because at the end of the day, when I was in school, I wasn't allowed to listen to music. And I'm sure many of us in here weren't allowed to in less. The whole classroom was listening to the same tape player, CD player.  I while I think it's nice to be  allowing students to have the option to listen to what they want. I don't necessarily always think the content that they're listening to is necessarily appropriate, and some of those things that they're listening to that are not appropriate or direct violations of other policies. So I think we're treading in dangerous grounds by allowing it to be quite honest,  because we have you can't wear branded clothes, but yet the kids over here listening to something that's sitting there talking about drinking Jack Daniels  or smoking marijuana, I mean, realistically, this is the that's what these kids are doing.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I can't say that I've never been not guilty of listening to distasteful music to some and knowing that the children are doing the same things, but we have a

[9950-303] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: it to be quite honest, because we have you can't wear branded clothes, but yet the kids over here listening to something that's sitting there talking about drinking Jack Daniels or smoking marijuana, I mean, realistically, this is the that's what these kids are doing.
TEXT> I can't say that I've never been not guilty of listening to distasteful music to some  and knowing that the children are doing the same things, but we have a higher standard that we expect from  at school. School is not playtime. It's time to get to work and get an education.  I mean, I'm respectful of of the idea and the philosophy behind it, but realistically, I'm not supportive of the whole music piece unless it's played generally in the classroom, and they have to listen to what they have to listen to. That's just realistic views on it.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So I'm trying to be realistic to so I guess some of my, my issues with the cell phone part is, is, even when I was in high school, you

[9950-304] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: respectful of of the idea and the philosophy behind it, but realistically, I'm not supportive of the whole music piece unless it's played generally in the classroom, and they have to listen to what they have to listen to. That's just realistic views on it.
TEXT> So I'm trying to be realistic to so I guess some of my, my issues with the cell phone part is, is, even when I was in high school, you know, the, the TI 83 graphing calculator was, you know, with a shrewd, student, they could very easily input every bit of information that was on the test into it. So, yeah, I, I would imagine the majority of the kids who are listening to music on their phones are probably listening to music, but I bet there's some industrious ones who are probably listening to the answers for the test. That being said, I also understand that there are people who function much better when when having something playing in the background. I.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Don't one.

[9950-310] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Caroline.
TEXT> Well,  this is about this line about the phones is about the current policy that we talked  a lot about  and found out that,  from the senior luncheon,  that the five people that sat with me didn't, didn't know what the policy was. So you can have a written policy  and in a handbook and have them sign off. But unless it's, supported by a standard from across the board, you're going to have this happen again. Here's seniors graduating. And they never knew exactly.  Because one teacher, they were going to one teacher, one rule, another teacher, another rule, another teacher. They could do their homework on their phone.  So I'm for one that wants to reinstitute the policy by having a strict following of what it says. And,   I think that,  member key brought up a good point,  and I think it's time to get everybody on the same wavelength.  I think there's might be some other alternative  rewards.  You know, I'm thinking about in your discussion about teaching them the cook and all of that, taking them to the bank and teaching them how to bang correctly is a big deal for these kids. They get out in the real world and they don't have a clue how to conduct themselves.  So  I, I, I'm against the,  you know, the  cell phone usage.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I'm just wondering, because I know you're using the cell phone as a motivational tool in this program. That's what I read, right? They could earn the use of a

[9950-312] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named on this recordin | 2018-08-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: the bank is going to be motivating for some of these things. I think it would be embedded into their program and they would be learning it, but I don't know how it was taking a trip to the bank. It's not going to be,
TEXT> Well, part of and thank you for bringing up the point that we are talking about different populations. And I think that's an important point. Some of these kids are parents themselves. They're checking on their child. They need to know that in 20 minutes I can call home and see how my baby is doing. That's the reality of this population. The other hand, some of these kids may be using it for illicit purposes. Absolutely. I get that that that's the other reality here.  We know that the stress level  that is induced in people in Dallas included, when a cell phone is taken away. This study was done in Britain, equals and surpasses the stress one exhibits on one's wedding day. So those cycle and we see it we see it in the high school. And it is a I, I understand it is a part of the problem that they kids are getting kind of the s when we take their phones away from them. It means they are addicted to them and not in a positive way. So I am not disagreeing with what anybody has said.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: I'm trying to also find the balance as an educator, knowing that at the high school level, they will be using these devices in their places of work and have

[9950-322] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: Right, right.
TEXT> I mean, yes, I can imagine there will be anxiety the first day and I bet there will be a week one, but maybe after two weeks of the same thing. I know that when I started jogging again for the first time after way too long. It's painful for a while, but I got used to it. I have a feeling, I have a lot of faith in these kids, and I think they can modify the behavior accordingly.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: That's a very good point. A good point also.

[9950-324] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Patricia Barry: That's a very good point. A good point also.
TEXT> I also have I think technology is great, and I think modifying your curriculums to technologies is as great as well, however, I'm afraid or I would be afraid if our teachers were developing this technology to test when there's really no guarantee that all these kids are going to have smartphones.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So in that case. So in the case where that is a mechanism, and I'll give you an example. Class of 16 students, they all sit down. All right. You

[9950-325] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named on this recordin | 2018-08-15
PREV> Jason Benware: great, and I think modifying your curriculums to technologies is as great as well, however, I'm afraid or I would be afraid if our teachers were developing this technology to test when there's really no guarantee that all these kids are going to have smartphones.
TEXT> So in that case. So in the case where that is a mechanism, and I'll give you an example. Class of 16 students, they all sit down. All right. You had two chapters to read last night. Take out your phones. Go on to I forget the name of the the program. My English teachers would be embarrassed about me right now, but they go on. There's ten, 20 questions about chapters one and two and To Kill a mockingbird. Everybody goes through it. The student who doesn't have a smartphone. Very. The teacher knows about it, not a conversation. Here's the paper version. Puts it on his desk so that student has the paper version. All the others get on their phones, he sees. And then in five minutes of reading comprehension test has taken place. Results are in paper is passed in by the one student boom. We get on to the rest of the curriculum. It's an extremely efficient and engaging way for those kids to take a reading comprehension test and to gauge where the kids are. And now the teacher knows who read, who doesn't, who didn't read, what has what do they have to go over?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: He has immediate formative feedback from his students about that particular thing. That's just one incident where I was I was impressed at the at the great use of technology

[9950-329] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Corey, I've told Corey, the board has very strong feelings about cell phones. And so with that in mind, I'd be very curious to know where everyone comes down on how cell phones will be used or not be used in the various schools. Steve.
TEXT> I think the only problem with waiting for results of that information is that we'll be into the school year, and these have to be done at SAP. We're running out of time to get him, but I don't want him. But to do I get to have my last bit of commentary that was supposed to get after Jason? Okay, okay. Basically, I mean, I understand that that some of the teachers are utilizing the cell phones. At what point are we, the school board, going to be asked to start providing smartphones for every child and start stop replacing computers? Because at the end of the day, what I'm what I'm hearing is, is that, yeah, there's a student without the smartphone, he gets a paper version. And we talk about how we don't discriminate against people for their wealth and social status. And in my opinion, that's very discriminatory because you don't have a cell phone. You're the one that has to have the paper task, but in equal form with also following the policy of the school board. Everybody's getting that paper test. The advantage of the paper test is, is that I don't have two windows open on my phone that I'm flipping between rapidly because I know how to do it.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I have to do what it works sometimes so that I can get my answers. I think that the invitation of inviting smartphones as an instructional aide is nothing but

[9950-330] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: form with also following the policy of the school board. Everybody's getting that paper test. The advantage of the paper test is, is that I don't have two windows open on my phone that I'm flipping between rapidly because I know how to do it.
TEXT> I have to do what it works sometimes so that I can get my answers. I think that the invitation of inviting smartphones as an instructional aide is nothing but bad news, because these kids are not absorbing the information that they are required to absorb because it's too easy to get it at your fingertips with Google. So with that said that that's going to be my big push against it. When we move to vote on this, I will be voting no and requesting that we amend the the handbook.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I I'm. The cell phone policy. I'm leaving up to the administrative, form or seminar, whatever you call it on this Friday. And, and hopefully we'll get good feedback as

[9950-340] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named on this recordin | 2018-08-15
PREV> Unidentified: That.
TEXT> Was in the. Verbiage verbiage. In previous years. And that being the reason for that is because students who  often and it's not hard and fast to your to your question about does that mean you break a rule and you're, you know, you're out of school or you, you don't meet this contract and and you're gone? No. But for a number of students in the all program, this is potentially the last. Academic offering we have for them because we've exhausted virtually everything else, all other RTI for these students and strategy strategies. They have not worked, which is why they're in the Alt program. And so that for those students where this is really the last stop before a recommendation for out of district placement, that's why we felt it was important to have  strong language in there, to really embed the fact that for those students, and it's not all that are in there, because the goal of the Alt program is for students to come back in part or completely to the high school, that's always the goal. It's not to be a four year sentence for students, but for some of them,  that may be the reality.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So is out of district include adult debt and high set.

[9953-62] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2018-08-09
PREV> Jason Benware: time. But, it seems to me that, we could save ourselves a lot of energy if we, didn't beat on horses that are never going to be accomplished. And I feel as though that's where we're headed with this. Just my $0.02 on the matter.
TEXT> I just wanted to. I remember we had this conversation last time, and I was not an advocate for the position for a variety of reasons. And I think one of the biggest reasons for me is I feel like a lot of times we have champagne tastes on a beer budget. And,  I feel like there are a lot of things that are included in the job description that could be done by,  students in the school district. I do work in Lebanon, and the lady who is our person there is amazing. But a lot of the things that she does, you know, like putting pictures and updates in the newspaper and writing, great things about our school, I feel like could be incorporated into some classes are I feel like there should be a way that kids should be able to do these things in gain recognition for that. And also, we talked a lot about the Zillow effect the last time and how people need to be going on in and  doing surveys. And that's the only thing that's going to change the Zillow effect. And I think that if we put those links on our websites that we have already, you know, that would be a good, a good a good strategy.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I'm not for this. I think it's a great idea at some point in the future. But I think you also need to remember places like Lebanon. No offense, Cary,

[9953-75] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: I'd like.
TEXT> To make some suggestions on how we could move forward with some interesting ideas that I think have come from some of the citizens in Claremont,  and myself. A couple of things would like to see that we take more of the kids and get them involved with our government, get them involved with our school,  earning credits for doing  program work, earning credits for secretarial work, earning credits for X, Y, Z. We have a great we have a couple of great programs where children are young adults are able to go. You know, they could be fostered under the city, for example, you know, as an intern learning through their junior or senior year. These are just some suggestions, because we already have a great community, why not tap into our community by teaching our children some of these valuable things? That is only going to carry it twice as far. First of all, secondly, the demographics here, they don't want to see a lot of change, I don't think. And they don't want to see a lot of extra money spent.  I, I feel like we're not looking outside of the box in our own resources. We. Mr. McNugget did a great job.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And thank you, for continuing to follow through with that. Through a rough road in the school board's area, however, again, they get credits for attending functions. So you say

[9953-76] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-09
PREV> Michelle Pierce: don't want to see a lot of change, I don't think. And they don't want to see a lot of extra money spent. I, I feel like we're not looking outside of the box in our own resources. We. Mr. McNugget did a great job.
TEXT> And thank you, for continuing to follow through with that. Through a rough road in the school board's area, however, again, they get credits for attending functions. So you say to the, you know, you could even do freshman, junior, senior, you know, even eighth graders, there's there's so much that could be tapped into by just thinking and looking at some different programs or even creating them. There's plenty of people at this table that have created programs or designed something for something. So and, you know, like the the backs of school carnival and the which I do think a lot of kids already attend. Right. Help out with you. So, I mean, the farmer's market every week, having a, you know, a student representative of our community earning credit for being at the farmer's market, talking about their city and their school. There's so much that we could get from just taking the children in our own community and having them be a part of the community, rather than just raising them. So I'm saying.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: You had Steve.

[9953-80] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (chair recognizes 'Councilor Polk' [376]; Pie | 2018-08-09
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well.
TEXT> I think we're going to talk this to death. I do support the position. Think we need to keep this on the radar, because just in the last 36 hours, I've heard us talk about cities, the city having a quarterly report. And whatever happened to the annual report the council used to do? I do remember that actually, I used to have that welcome letters to businesses. We need to advertise our events more.  There's always student events. People are always asking me how come the tech center is not promoted more, you know, you know, things like that.  Zillow effect. I can go on and on and on. I don't think we need to lose sight of this position. I realize we have a new superintendent coming on. Trust me, I do that. I would like us not to lose sight of this. I'm pretty sure that it's probably not going to be funded in the near future. But, you know, we can't forget about all these things we wish were being done. And we talked about our employers being done. And I'm going to tell you something else about the students.
NEXT> Scott Pope: We're already asking a lot from the students. Yeah. Trust me, I, I kind of know that with my job. And so it's not that they're being lazy. It's just

[9953-83] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-09
PREV> Russell: So.
TEXT> Okay,  I'm going to be pretty quick on this as far as the if we wanted to go this route. And I think it it's been kind of talked about and we're beating the dead horse at this point. But with that said, I think it's a city position. It's the city's job to promote our job as a school board is to pay for educating. So in that the city, if the schools focus on their job, which is creating decent, marketable young children that become young adults and go into the workforce, we're doing our job. Therefore, that boost Claremont I think it's the city's job, in my opinion, to provide marketing for the city. Our work is to provide the education. And if we do our part, not by spending money on a position to advertise what we're currently doing. And actually, if we were going to spend the money, would be better off putting it back into the children and into the schools as opposed to marketing it. I think it's a city position.  And that's pretty much what I feel.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: I would like to speak since I haven't had a.

[9953-241] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Towle: 'I absolutely agree with what  | 2018-08-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: questions, concerns that we have both at the school district but within the entire community, because we're all affected by behavioral health. So, if that is okay with you, I just need some ideas of when you would like to have this type of training.
TEXT> I just add one piece to that. You know, we just had a discussion about funding and, school funding being a priority.  Our, our school funding crisis is directly tied to student behaviors and mental and emotional and behavioral health needs, and needing to provide for students  who have some significant needs. And so if you're one of those folks who really is all about school funding, and that's your issue, and this seems like it's a separate issue, it is not. These issues are intimately tied together.  And so I would encourage us to think about funding,  as it is heavily impacted by  social and emotional needs of our students.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Excellent point. So having said that, what would these governing bodies like to do as far as if you want me to coordinate the training, I just have to have

[9953-268] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair, co-presiding ('I'm the board chair' [340 | 2018-08-09
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: it really late today, and I didn't have a chance to read it thoroughly. But in skimming, it appears that there's several different types of trainings. So we would have to narrow down which training we actually want to be in attendance for, or inaccurate.
TEXT> Just the children's behavioral health system in New Hampshire.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That would be our choice.

[9974-141] Carolyn Towle | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont School Board) | 2018-08-23
PREV> Bill: Okay. You're getting close. But the problem is that if you lead anybody to a question, you will not get a valid answer. Okay. You. That's better than most.
TEXT> And I would lead out by telling him of some of the best past relationships that I've had through for H. And, how I resolve them into a learning situation, even though the child didn't really want to do that. And then I would have him explain to me what he thought his successes were with the children  and getting them to cooperate, a buy in and find ownership in what they were doing.
NEXT> Bill: The intent on all of these makes sense, but none of them you give you the information that we're looking for.

[9974-215] Bill | NHSBA search consultant, co-founder of the Center for Secondary School | 2018-08-23
PREV> Michelle Pierce: done, you'll sweep all your information? I guess, because I'm, I guess from a candidate position, you know, these are these are great lead ins or for even hiring in the schools. It just seems like this would be great to set up almost a.
TEXT> That's a great point that I failed to mention. If you've made this evaluation against these criteria and the person walks in the door, you review your scoring of it with them. That starts their professional development plan. It's already there. And then you've got these standards. They're the thing that I will mention to is that the the value of the guided storytelling is, is, is really amazing. I use it with children. I'm doing a study of social emotional intelligence competencies with kids starting in kindergarten,  and I'm using a storytelling  and it works just as well with kids. And I'm also in one school. All the teachers are being taught how to do this storytelling approach with the kids.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I think that's what reminded me of it, because I do occupational therapy, and a lot of what you're talking about is very similar in the way that we work

[9974-472] Barrett Christina | Executive Director, New Hampshire School Boards Association (self-iden | 2018-08-23
PREV> Michelle Pierce: What the best team.
TEXT> Is the searches. Of the number of searches I've done. I'm trying to think of how I've been involved in probably a couple dozen superintendent searches. I'd say probably 95% of those have gone to committee report, 5% that have not gone to the community committee route. I'd say, you know, most of those run a little bit smoother. I mean, that's a simple fact of  not always because I, you know, I've been on somewhere. It's been a subcommittee of the board. And that one did not go well. I just be mindful that if if you're going to go the community route, be mindful that and it's still advisory. We get that. But if you're talking about giving the committee the authority to recommend  finalists or semifinalists or move people forward, you got to be just be mindful that how the number of people on the committee and the board should still maintain control of that. But I'm just I again, I'm standing here  recommending, you know, advocating on behalf of the board, which is what my job is. Right. And I get I'm not I'm not going to let that official I don't have the constituency any dancer. So I you know, there's a disconnect there as well too.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: So can we.

[9986-4] Jesse | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name o | 2018-09-05
PREV> Unidentified: You said August.
TEXT> I'm sorry. It'll be April 1st through the fifth, which should  be around cherry blossom time. This year's itinerary includes the National Cathedral and the National Zoo, along with the river cruise down the Potomac and tons of other sites and memorials, which include the Lincoln Memorial, the Vietnam War Memorial,  the World War Two, and Korean War memorials as well. And the trip is open to all students and financial aid is available as  necessitated. I'm going on to  what's going on at the Tech Center. We welcome three new teachers so far this year in plumbing, construction and culinary.  Students in these classes are really glad to have these teachers on board, and they're excited to start learning and  just getting to work with these teachers so far. And of course, we have a major thank you to our new  director,  Doctor Alex Herzog, for all of his hard work thus far. Students from Student Voice will be asking to be on the next school board agenda to make a presentation on the proposed electronic device policy. They're in the process of gathering information from teachers on how to  to use cell phones within the curriculum.
NEXT> Jesse: In addition, our assistant principal, Miss Magee and Special Ed Building Coordinator, both jobs would like to speak on how this policy will affect special ed law. And I specifically,

[9986-64] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' by Horsky [115], [802]  | 2018-09-05
PREV> Unidentified: Off on it?
TEXT> It does have a slot for the,  chairperson on behalf of the board.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I guess my my concern is, is what the speaker said. And it's awkward for us as board members because we really can't communicate with each other. We can't share

[9986-150] Peter Wright | President and CEO, Valley Regional Healthcare (self-identified [210],  | 2018-09-05
PREV> Peter Wright: about building relationships. You're talking about a population does not trust very many people, if anybody at all. And so the duration of the program is key to success. I also know that some of those needles that are out there that you're worried about.
TEXT> I had a phone call with the superintendent earlier this week  about his concern about needles that exist today on the school campuses. One of the reasons we want to do this is nobody is better at handling and disposing of these materials than we are. Should we launch this program?  I absolutely pledge to work with the school districts to make sure that our staff, figure out how to make the school grounds a safer place to be. I think that's a key component, because you're right. We're not going to get them all off the street. If we get 5 or 10% off the street, I would consider that a success. That's 5 or 10% that weren't there before. But we can't stop there. We have to continue.  We have to continue the effort. We have to continue to enhance our relationship about keeping the kids safe. And this is just one component of that.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Follow up. Just a quick follow up. A quick follow up is in regards to if diabetics can come in and responsive syringes with you, can you come in and

[9986-165] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'Rebecca. Seconded' [1019] f | 2018-09-05
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Okay.
TEXT> I just want to be super frank and upfront right from the get go. And I think I mentioned this. Last time. People came that I have  a cousin who was a heroin addict. So I feel like you're explaining all of this to me, and I understand 1,000,000%, and  I understand the reasoning. I understand how helpful it is. I understand the validity of it.  And I personally agree with everything that you guys want to do. What I struggle with and I'm uncomfortable with. Is it being so close to a school?  And I know that the the chances of anything bad happening to the students or staff or anybody are slim to none, but I still feel extremely uncomfortable with that.
NEXT> Peter Wright: I totally understand if you knew what happened in in our emergency department outside in our parking lot every single day, this would be the least of your worries. Yeah,

[9986-166] Peter Wright | President and CEO, Valley Regional Healthcare (self-identified [210],  | 2018-09-05
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I struggle with and I'm uncomfortable with. Is it being so close to a school? And I know that the the chances of anything bad happening to the students or staff or anybody are slim to none, but I still feel extremely uncomfortable with that.
TEXT> I totally understand if you knew what happened in in our emergency department outside in our parking lot every single day, this would be the least of your worries. Yeah,  our responsibility is to keep the kids safe. To be. To be candid, I'm glad we can be frank and candid. In my opinion, if we don't pass this, we're putting the kids at greater risk than if we did pass it. We will get some of it. We will get some of it off the streets. I will commit to working with the superintendent to figure out how to clean up the rest of the playgrounds. It's it's a package deal. I absolutely don't want to just say we're one and we're one and done. So board members, be patient. We're going to everybody even has have hasn't had a.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Chance to ask one question yet. So we're not going to triple dip. On other people. Haven't said anything yet. Thank you. I see chief Chase here, and I know.

[9986-203] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Steve'/'Stephen' [149],[ | 2018-09-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Steve, did you have something?
TEXT> Well, I just at the end of the day, I kind of find this whole request disrespectful to the students and the children of Claremont and the families and parents and taxpayers to put this in the hospital right next to an elementary school. And I think it while the program idea is novel, why couldn't we consider putting it in the Newport Health Center? That's a medical facility, not next to a school common sense approach.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Because those people can't get their.

[9986-213] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presiding; addressed as 'chairman of the | 2018-09-05
PREV> Peter Wright: example, Monday morning at 8:00. Not a good time to come to the hospital, right? Every single Monday or this week. It was Tuesday. It just it's predictable. And so you're right. We would never want to program something when our resources are already stretched.
TEXT> The one of the. I heard you use the word safe and healthy and,  one of my things I observe is that not what I call the not in my backyard syndrome. And, we talk about solar energy and wind energy, and everybody believes that those are safe and healthy alternatives, but not in my backyard. And this is another one of those programs that this is,  there's no question that serves the greater good. It's it's it's approved by the state.  There are some concerns.  I'm going to reiterate that I think that many of the clients  are not evil people that are coming in from  Lawrence, Massachusetts or somewhere. I think that they are the  parents and the extended families of the students in our schools. I believe that. So,  I just think that we need to be wary of the the not in my backyard.
NEXT> Peter Wright: Absolutely. This you said something I think was very important. This enemy that we're fighting cuts across every socio economic dynamic. There are Ivy League graduates who have this problem.

[9986-221] Peter Wright | President and CEO, Valley Regional Healthcare (self-identified [210],  | 2018-09-05
PREV> Jason Benware: So I would be in favor of I would be inclined to approve this if it were happening after programs were done at the school. So 330 is too early in my opinion. There's still going to be kids there.
TEXT> What what I, what I think perhaps  I would hope maybe will make you feel better is part of this certainly should be coordination with CPD. And if we could coordinate with the chief to make sure there's an enhanced patrol and police presence during the hours,  you know, in, in, in and around the school, right? I mean, it's not just I doubt there's anything nefarious happening inside the school or maybe the immediate parking lot, but we all know that trail and the wooded area. And so I think that we can work with the chief to make sure that, when the program is open, that, that there's presence and we make a deliberate effort to enhance the safety for the kids.
NEXT> Marc Chase: And we partner with the hospital all the time for various different events. This is not this is not going to be a new partnership that we have to create

[9986-282] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (roll-call 'Michelle Pierce. Yes' [409]; | 2018-09-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: Participated in the in the conversation. Yes, sure.
TEXT> So my only concern is there are lots of parents who might not be able to afford getting the kids or care. Is do we have anything that we might,  you know, I guess other than educating some of them,  or is there going to be an alternatives to get help or  to. I mean, I guess as part of the policy.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Steve.

[9986-381] Prescott Herzog | Student representative, Stevens High School (self-identified 'Prescott | 2018-09-05
PREV> Jason Benware: Like soever.
TEXT> So I. Would like maybe to see a bit more, talk or elaboration on that, or just at least sending that out to the student population, because we're seeing a bunch of students up in arms because of what is consists of.
NEXT> Jason Benware: It talks.

[9986-410] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Jason' [145],[484]); clu | 2018-09-05
PREV> Mary Woodman: Do that. Like.
TEXT> I have a question about last year when they when you were using cell phones in the classroom for, maybe correcting a Spanish test with Kahoot, what does that look like for the students that don't have a smartphone?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So I can give.

[9986-414] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Steve'/'Stephen' [149],[ | 2018-09-05
PREV> Jason Benware: So now currently I'll be given paper correct to write on instead of using cell phones. Correct. So you're not singling anybody out that way.
TEXT> Just the one thing to consider that I don't think is, is being looked at here is at this point, the school board is asked to spend  lots and lots of money  on technology,  lots and lots. And if we're going to make it so that the the big complaint is, is I can't use my smartphone, I can't have it at school. Well, then I think we can take technology out of the budget and see how that works, because if we're going to have the students supply us themselves, or how long is it before we're discriminating against the families who can't afford the smartphones that are  now having to be the paper kid? Because we talk about  the effects of one having head lice being picked on, what about the kid now who doesn't have the smartphone? You can't use the arguments and not apply it across the board.  And that's the foundation of the headlines policy. It goes across the board. While there's some fortunate families that are poor families that can't get their child, that iPhone or that galaxy or whatever the heck the new one is this week, the key thing is, is that we're encouraging  by not adopting a policy.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: And the key word here is private devices. There's also a reason we need to have private the private devices word language there because we want them to use school

[9986-415] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Steve'/'Stephen' [149],[ | 2018-09-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: across the board. While there's some fortunate families that are poor families that can't get their child, that iPhone or that galaxy or whatever the heck the new one is this week, the key thing is, is that we're encouraging by not adopting a policy.
TEXT> And the key word here is private devices. There's also a reason we need to have private the private devices word language there because we want them to use school supplied stuff that the taxpayers have donated so much money for to have these nice things for the students. But at the same time, the technology that we're providing is protected under firewalls and we can filter out content. We can't do that on a private device. We have no legal authority to do it. And by allowing that device that's a private device in that school, we are subjecting the ability for some to abuse it. And I'm not saying that all the kids in Claremont are bad. Please,  that's not what I'm saying. But at the end of the day, there's a reason we have supplied items and it's because it's protected with our technology. We pay money for virus, we pay this, we pay that. We're paying all these bills. But now you're telling me that it's a big problem to keep cell phones out of people's hands? So I think that while we're talking about budget soon, maybe technology, we don't need to supply it because the parents that have been up raw and teachers that are not brought, maybe they can start supplying it.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Prescott if we're going to start talking about equity of technology inside of all students, I would instead of going away and taking away the entire technology budget, I would

[9986-416] Prescott Herzog | Student representative, Stevens High School (self-identified 'Prescott | 2018-09-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: keep cell phones out of people's hands? So I think that while we're talking about budget soon, maybe technology, we don't need to supply it because the parents that have been up raw and teachers that are not brought, maybe they can start supplying it.
TEXT> Prescott if we're going to start talking about equity  of technology inside of all students,  I would instead of going away and taking away the entire technology budget, I would say making sure that every single student has a Chromebook that's able to take home and able to do their work and do the work provided and be able to take those during classes. And that not only make sure that the quality of technology is given, but with those Chromebooks, with the internet, they can work together on most of the devices and app that we're using.  So  if we are going to put this policy forward, I would like to see some sort of 1 to 1 Chromebook implication.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I've got to go to Michelle.

[9986-419] Jesse | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name o | 2018-09-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I actually have a question to you guys. What is Kahoot?
TEXT> It is an online review tool that can be used for classroom study. So basically there's there's a web address for it. And students can go and enter in a class code and they can all connect in the same area and review the same material. You say it's in like the styled flashcard. So you can say a question, you have 10s and you would answer it, and the teacher sees all of the students responses, so the teacher knows what students might need help in a particular area. I mean, I think it's reported as anonymous, obviously, so that no student is singled out as say, they have more wrong answers than somebody else.  But it really what it is is it is used as a tool that can be helpful for classroom to do. And you access that through your smartphones. You can access it through smartphones. I mean, anything that can access the internet. So I would add I, I'm not saying we're not saying that cell phone usage should be standardized in the class. Like you have to whip out your cell phone to do this. They're always going to be the other ways. What we're saying is, is the cell phone is a matter of convenience and it's quicker.
NEXT> Jesse: So say there's something in class that we're talking about and we just want to Google information real quick that would be helpful in the classroom setting. Or I'm in

[9986-499] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes the chair, Peter Wright, Michael Petrin,  | 2018-09-05
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Answer.
TEXT> Based in another challenge. I just wanted to, you know, kind of answer  a little bit more on sort of a same line that Corey did to Steve. Also the opioid addiction, among other things in this city, tends to decrease  productivity, reduce home values.  And all of those things add to the bottom line of the cost of educating our children and the tax rate. So I do believe that  we have actually a fair amount of stake in the opioid addiction when it comes to educating children. So. I, I.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I just like to say that this is really an awesome opportunity for the city and the school board to work together, on another project like the lead poisoning project.

[9986-699] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes the chair, Peter Wright, Michael Petrin,  | 2018-09-05
PREV> Cory LeClair: We do a beginning of the year. Have not started that yet. There will be a baseline. The baseline is helpful in at the midyear point, just as context for first semester.
TEXT> I mean, I personally I really, I'm very interested in kids who, tracking the full year kindergarten and the effect of that. And also, wondering about kids who participate in the preschool program, what we're seeing for benefits of that program as well. And I've got some other questions around.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: The mini Cardinals. Is that what you're referring to.

[56073-72] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Tim Broadrick: talking about. The fact is that it serves kids, some of whom have IEP and need the placement. For that reason, it has to be approved by the state. Others are of whom should be on what? Under regulation we call an alternative learning plan.
TEXT> That is not a special ed program. That's for a kid who is going to get a 24 credit or whatever diploma and goes absolutely out of his mind sitting in that building all day, but has to go to math class and has to go to English class to get those credits. But then instead of going to a gym class and a  theater elective or an art elective could be going to work and getting work based learning credit through what New Hampshire calls an elbow. That student goes on to an alternative learning plan, comes in, does the two classes, then goes to work. Maybe there's an online class. There's a way under the regulation to do this for kids. Their intention with this program was to have a place for those kids to go, not at your next meeting, but at your 2nd August meeting is when I'm planning to.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So I to get through tonight's goal setting. We're not solving any of these problems.

[56073-199] Heather Whitney | School Board member (read the chart-paper sheets, per draft minutes) | 2026-07-29
PREV> Candace Crawford: There are lots of pieces around staff and teacher evaluation, training of the evaluators, putting a systems in place, getting adopted by Sri. The the large picture is staff and teacher evaluations. And they're going to be lots of subsets under that.
TEXT> Well I think when we're looking at the priorities that was what I was saying was my priority under school operations is that we establish a mechanism because the quality of our there's nothing more important to our educational outcomes and to our students and the quality of the teachers in the classroom. And we need to be celebrating good teachers, too. Yeah.  And I want to highlight those people. And there's no way there's a lot of people carrying a lot of weight, disproportionate weight, I think, in our districts as well.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I agree with you. I, I put it under human resources.

[56073-203] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Candace Crawford: We could. Okay. Let's move. Yeah. Yes.
TEXT> It's a need, though. It's a need. It's a need by law. And it's a need for the sake of the human beings who work here. Right?  This I haven't gotten to sort of next steps after tonight, but this is one where I bet the next time you see it, there's a whole bunch more if you let me do which I what I want to do next, which is go to the principals and other administrators and ask them what should be added. Yeah. The principles are going to have a field day with this one, I bet. Yeah, they'll have all kinds of things, which will be interesting.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Under technology we have network infrastructure and security compliance with data and privacy laws. Unified software. A single login. Yes, please. Integration into teaching and learning. Assess value of current

[56073-232] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Tim Broadrick: You know, play the part of Lauren now. Yeah. Thank you.
TEXT> So this is what Lauren said for this I'm going to get skewered for this. But on a policy committee I plan to reopen our AI policy and. Got it. This is Lawrence. I cannot support this. Scraping our children's data, the overpricing products that are proven to cause more harm than good, and the awful work created by lemons. We are humans we should be creating. We need to set a precedent and prove you not need AI integration to have success in schools. You need good teachers, consistency and of course all the other foundations you've laid out. I work as assistant director at my job, and every day I have to fix another problem caused by an employee's misuse of AI. And then he has a sub note PMS. Can we get an update on what services are being provided by TMS enemies? Now our employee, my assumption is Tim is not calling the superintendent on call. Who is available to carry. Are we still going to be paying their guy for PR?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: The only service I've asked Andy to continue if I can get your blessing is Pierre, so I'm using him for that. When things come up, I'm drafting, I. I

[56073-436] Brian Rapp | School Board member (attributed by elimination: only member present pe | 2026-07-29
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> One year I took part in a chemistry class. It was great. You had a good time, talked with the kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: See what it feels like to be in the school.

[56073-455] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-07-29
PREV> Don Lavalette: Well, maybe I like to phrase it as what? What would a ordinary citizen think if they can't buy us on this, that, that to me, that's that's the standard, right. What would it what would a just a regular person what would they think?
TEXT> I would like to I would like to see if the kid is learning. That's you know, I don't I don't for me, I don't care whether the kid has a hoodie on or a hat, or is the kid learning and progressing? I mean, they're going to be learning something.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[56073-526] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-07-29
PREV> Heather Whitney: And that's not what we're not looking for kids to be thrown out of school. I learned in school.
TEXT> There is and I mean this is what happens. I  have a concern about kids who, you know, they don't comply with the rules. And so the parents say, oh, will homeschool them and don't do anything. And then then they come back to school after a year and they're one year behind. And now  now they are as they need remedial help and an added expense. And that's not fair to the district.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: And we own it.

[56073-531] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Candace Crawford: We sure do. That is absolutely. And that infuriates me because parents are allowed to use homeschooling as an easy way to, ameliorate the problem, to get away, to not solve anything. And it creates more problems.
TEXT> Yeah. You're right. I'm going to guess if we stay with the way the schools are configured now, that probably within 5 to 10 years you'll see a reduction in a lot of behavioral things. And I'll tell you where I'm coming from. So when we had three elementary schools right K to five we essentially had three cities.  Of kids. And then we packed them all in the middle school. Right. So there's a value to kids going through the their educational process all together. So now we're going to have all of our kids are going to experience K to eight the same way. And so my guess is that's going to eliminate some of the bullying and some of the nonsense. We won't see it this year. We won't see it next year. But I would say within a couple of cycles we'll start to see improvements.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That might. Yeah. And that might be some of the reason why kids get pulled out and homeschooled. But I think that is that continues to be a problem. Whatever

[56073-667] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Brian Rapp: Love that.
TEXT> Get into that. For the record. Could be a peer solicited, selected within grade level teams. And so what we do is create an instructional leader, we create a mentor, and we create just a foundational piece to what we're supposed to be doing here, which is educating our kids,  program commitments. So when we purchase instructional programs and I'm speaking from experience of us, we need to commit to at least ten years. So why do you say ten years done so.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Well, it's worse than me. No, no.

[56073-669] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Brian Rapp: Well, it's worse than me. No, no.
TEXT> So the cost of buying a math program for this district is enormous. And I've seen it where we have gone from everyday math, which took me five years. I finally become master, and now we're going to Singapore math. And then we ditched that. And so all we we're doing is wasting money and time. And the kids suffer at that. Right? Because we don't. Nobody becomes proficient in the materials. So how can you teach it if you're not proficient. Right. So math could take five years just to become an expert with the materials. And then we need to show the data to support whether this is working or not working. Meaningful assessment.  And again, these are just my notes, right. Every formative is just a pretest. It's just one check in point. We have this overreliance on technology to assess and diagnose all of our kids. I mean, it's okay for an invention, but but we and when I say we, I mean the teacher, you've got to get to know the student's strengths and weaknesses. Do we over generalize assessment data for example student.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: And this goes back to special ed. Right. So oftentimes you'll see a student with low achievement let's say in reading. And immediately someone in a team will jump and

[56073-670] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Don Lavalette: and diagnose all of our kids. I mean, it's okay for an invention, but but we and when I say we, I mean the teacher, you've got to get to know the student's strengths and weaknesses. Do we over generalize assessment data for example student.
TEXT> And this goes back to special ed. Right. So oftentimes you'll see a student with low achievement let's say in reading. And immediately someone in a team will jump and say that they must be struggling in math and science without any evidence. And then we end up where we don't want to be with that student. Right? So instead of addressing just that one area, it becomes this broad thing. And now we've gone from an accommodation or modification that could fix it to an IEP that commits us to, you know,  strong tier one instruction matters more than any program that you could buy. So it's not the program teaching the kids. And then someone else smarter than me said this, but we got to divorce ourselves from this term and fidelity. And so if fidelity, the curriculum means implementing evidence based instructional  routines that helps student students learn to read, for example, then yes, I'm all for it. However, in practice, if fidelity to the curriculum means teachers can't respond to student needs, adjust their instruction, provide additional modeling, or use their here we go professional expertise.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Right?

[56073-674] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Don Lavalette: Because they're expected to follow the script without question, then we've lost sight of the goal, right? It's just compliance is not equal quality.
TEXT> So in a lot of schools, fidelity to the administration means it's the third Tuesday of the year. So in second grade they're all going to be flying kites and reading the book about kites and saying the words on the script, about the book about kites, not G. These kids aren't getting this right now. I'm going to back up and do this a different way, because now I'm off script and I'm out of step, and the administration might say, no, Tim, you're not teaching with fidelity to the curriculum.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Right now. I'm going to take it one step further to what you said about teacher evaluation. Right? So if you're evaluating Jim and Jim isn't on script, right?

[56073-677] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Brian Rapp: Right. Again.
TEXT> He's adjusting that curriculum to meet the needs of the kids. And so I'm not I'm just saying you brought up, but that's an example of misuse of an observation a piece of data.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No. Then it's a bad value. Yeah.

[56073-687] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Brian Rapp: It's really good stuff.
TEXT> So I worked for my first district where I was a teacher and then eventually became the superintendent. We were a regional vocational technical high school district. So in the real world, that means we got a lot of kids who didn't like school and weren't very successful in middle school, because that's who the guidance counselors would encourage to go to the VOC school. In reality, we also got a lot of sons and daughters of nurses and electricians and plumbers who knew that the smart thing to do was go to the folk school. But, we we had better scores on the writing state exam, the MCAS exam, than most comprehensive high schools in the state. Interesting in towns like wealthy and over and Wayland and like all over Massachusetts. And there was a reason and the criticism is we were teaching to the test. But listen to what we were doing. It's just what John John just described. The kids, the the writing test is based on a five paragraph essay. The assignment is a prompt. The prompt changes every year, but the assignment is a five paragraph essay. So starting in ninth grade, English kids learn to use a graphic organizer to organize an essay. What is an introductory sentence? What is the purpose of the first paragraph? Right. I learned this as a kid, right?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Yeah, yeah.

[56073-714] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Brian Rapp: Right.
TEXT> You'll never convince me that our kids couldn't compete academically with the hanover's of the world, just like we do in sports. When you look at our top ten each year, I mean, well, our at the table graduated Dartmouth so I  just we can compete and be as good as they are. We just have to refocus, shift gears a little bit and we are well going to be well positioned to compete with them. Naysayers aside.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I.

[56073-815] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-07-29
PREV> Tim Broadrick: never got that. And, you know, I just got here. So we'll take a look back and see. But why would we spend a full time salary and more importantly, benefits on a full time position if we can't tell that it's making a difference?
TEXT> And are the kids not coming? Why aren't the kids coming to school, right? What what what is the reason?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: And having somebody run around and check on them might not address that. There might be another way. No, I'm not saying we won't use the money. Maybe we'll use

[56073-823] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Unidentified: We do have a responsibility to follow up though, for kids that are showing up.
TEXT> Yeah. We're. So my guidance to staff for now,  based on this new law is to not behave any differently with regards to homeschoolers. We're we're still going to do the things. When we hear that somebody is homeschooling, we're still going to send them an acknowledgment letter. I have a form letter that Tammy can send out with my signature on it. At some point, you'll see we will adapt. I used to publish a homeschoolers handbook from the public School district, which is designed to make sure that homeschoolers know how you can have your child participate in the band in a sport. Take a strong  class at Stevens that maybe you don't feel equipped to teach at home, because you never know. You get that homeschool kid into the band and into one class, and one day they go home and they're like, hey, mom, all my friends are at school. Can I just go, right and boom, they're back. And that's adequacy and differentiated aid and hopefully outcomes for the kid.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: As well. So my understanding that we did have a high set G.E.D. until a few years ago, we screwed it up.

[56073-911] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah yeah.
TEXT> No no. So we developed so so the law says that the superintendent recommends a budget to the school board, and the school board proposes a budget to the community. Those are the. That's the language in the law.  But what happens in between those two things is the space you're talking about. Right? Right. So what what we. Because it's really me, on behalf of the administration, recommend starts a process that we should all be participating in together. I've done it different ways we can talk about it. Matt had his ideas that he already talked to you about, which I liked. So maybe we do something that looks like that. And,  as far as the presentation goes, I'll look at that. I also have some, like Heidi had a great way of doing this very organized, similar kind of a thing. When we get close to you guys, do a deliberative session and then so it's funny, you're a city, but you do SB two. I actually love it. Different school boards do this different ways. I have during my career always made a budget overview presentation at the deliberative yes session for the school board of Met school boards that don't like that, but I'm prepared to do it if you want.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Unless you don't want me to prepare to do it. I think that's what you pay me for. So whatever you want, we can. We have plenty of time before

[63861-6] Courtney Porter | District staff (recognition presenter, as announced) | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: Thank you. Okay. Yeah. Excuse me. First order of business. Before we actually begin the meeting tonight, we have a special recognition. And Courtney Porter is going to give us the particulars about this special recognition.
TEXT> Good evening, everyone. Tonight, I stand before you to share a story about one of our employees who had a split second decision that really could have made one chance or another chance. So tonight we're going to recognize Jessie is a driver of saw six. So in July he was transporting students who are a part of saw SRO Stephen  Crystal Stevens. Summer program two. I forget exactly where they were going. On their way back. All of a sudden Jessie saw  a tree that he thought was waving. This tree was not waving. This was a 108 pine tree that was about to fall in front of a bus full of children and staff. Jessie had a quick decision. Do I jam on my brakes or do I muster through? Jessie chose the latter, and because of that, not a single student or adult was injured. I would like to ask that Superintendent Broderick and our chair, Candace Crawford, come up and please present Mr. Aiken with the certificate of appreciation. Jessie, thank you so much. Thank you very much. I know that there are. I know that there were a lot of hearers that were very worried about what was the outcome of their children, and Jessie's defensive driving really made a difference. Thank you.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That's a good way to begin. Those kids at safety. Okay. Let's move on to the consent agenda. We have an agenda in front of us. Any changes that anybody

[63861-7] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-08-05
PREV> Courtney Porter: Jessie, thank you so much. Thank you very much. I know that there are. I know that there were a lot of hearers that were very worried about what was the outcome of their children, and Jessie's defensive driving really made a difference. Thank you.
TEXT> That's a good way to begin. Those kids at safety. Okay. Let's move on to the consent agenda. We have an agenda in front of us. Any changes that anybody sees? If I hearing none. I'm going to ask for a consent of this agenda is proposed. Yeah. Okay. And  do we have approval of the minutes? Yes. All done. Very good.  And we don't have any manifest review tonight, so that gets us to citizens comments. And we have will open the meeting for citizens comments.  Just keep in mind that we have  three minutes per person to speak, and we have 30 minutes for the the time  for presenting. So if anybody would like to speak, just come and say your name and the ward that you represent or that you come from, and then you're welcome to speak. Brian.
NEXT> Brian (surname not stated): Good evening. My name is Brian Ward two. I stand before you tonight simply to speak about one coach. Speak about something more larger than that. Trust. Over the past

[63861-14] Sherry Williams | Public commenter, Ward 1 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> My name is Sherry Williams, Ward one.  I'd like to take the opportunity to say thank you to the board, Mr. Madden and the entire board for approving summer school this year. My family has been impacted by that very positively. I'd like to thank Miss Rimes. What she did this year with summer school actually was a little more involved than I've seen in years past. It was a very, very positive thing. So thank you.  I would like to let the saw staff know  that all of the hard work that went into the communication  last year, that really has been a part of building the trust and that the little trust that we've been able to gain this year, some of it is already clearly starting to fall by the wayside for in particular the essay website difficulty. I loved that last year I could go on and find the school board meeting documents. They were all clearly labeled and in one folder. And not only I, but others have had to search high and low just to find the agenda and things related to the meeting minutes. We're already falling back in the gains that were made last year. The superintendent, Roderick, this is the first time that I'm getting to speak to you at a school board meeting. You have to understand, if you don't already,  that you absolutely have a huge responsibility. One that I'm not sure what you were aware of from last year, but you take your responsibility very seriously, and I understand that. But you are trying to your responsibility is to write a ship  that has been astray. The issue is you are not writing an empty ship. You are writing a ship full of Claremont residents, families, and students who have lived in this community for decades, generations, years, who have families and they build their families. And in this community, our sports is a backbone of what we do here, what we love and we come out of our homes for. And so you have to understand the community that is on the ship that you are trying to write, and all of the administrative responsibilities that the superintendent has that you all hired him for  are on our students behalf. And you have to impress upon him the ethics and the values that this town has.  And already before this school year has started, we're seeing the website and the communication beginning to fail. We're seeing systems failing. We're seeing an uproar in a community that has a voice. And you have to understand this community. Mr. Roderick, if you are going to expect that we will all stay on the ship that you are trying to write. I stand with coach Stone. Thank you.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Is there anyone else who would like to speak tonight?

[63861-16] Brian (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: Is there anyone else who would like to speak tonight?
TEXT> Zero Ward two. Just to finish. What troubles me the most is this in this pattern, during the financial crisis, many people felt decisions were made without adequate transparency or communication that experienced damaged public confidence in this district. Rebuilding that confidence requires more than a balance. Balancing the budget requires demonstrating the decisions are made openly, fairly and according to established procedures. When another major decision affecting students, families and the respected community members appears to unfold without clear communication or transparent process, it reopens wounds that community has hard to heal. It's not simply about Jason Stone. It's about every coach who volunteers countless hours because they care about our students. It's about every parent who expects decisions to be made fairly. It's about every student who deserves stability in the programs they love. And this is about every taxpayer who deserves confidence that important decisions are made through established procedures, not behind closed doors. Tonight, I respectfully ask this board to answer for questions what district policy govern this decision? What was the policy following from followed from beginning to end? If the letter director was not involved? Why not? What steps would this board take to ensure future coaching decisions are transparent, consistent and worthy of the public's trust? The citizens of Claremont are not asking for favoritism, for asking for fairness. We're asking for transparency. We're accounting for accountability because one trust is once public trust is lost. It incredibly difficult to rebuild. And after everything this community has been through, we cannot afford to take another step backward. Thank you.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Is there anyone else who would like to make public comment tonight?

[63861-18] 'Dr. Michael' (surname not transcribed) | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: Is there anyone else who would like to make public comment tonight?
TEXT> Thank you very much,  doctor Michael Ward three. It's a doctor, pharmacy, doctor of medicine. I want to welcome you to our community. Doctor Broderick,  it's unfortunate that you kind of stepped into a landmine  straight out. Did anyone along this process tell you that coach Stone had been involved in youth soccer for 30 years? And did anybody give you a hint of that? Did anyone give you a hint that he had developed over ten years ago?  A football program so kids could keep their soccer skills going in the winter? And you've already heard his character, you know, people speaking to his character. I think if you had met with him, you would have been impressed by a good and kind man who's also a very skillful soccer player. He was developing his son Harper, in the the guys his age, especially because he was seeking forward to coaching them through high school as he was his son Oliver, who was a senior this year.  In fact, the teams that Coach Kinston has been winning with Jason worked very hard to develop those kids. So that's what I want to say to Jay's character in this experience. But I'm going to ask this because  I am so committed to education, so committed to education. So I went to look at what the requirements are for middle school science teacher. So it said to teach science in New Hampshire middle schools, grades five through eight, you must hold at least a bachelor's degree. I  don't know, Mr. Kingston. I wouldn't know him if I tripped over him. I have no animosity toward this man. Please understand that. But I heard that perhaps he didn't have a college degree. So does he have a bachelor's degree? Did he complete an approved educator preparation program and obtain the proper general science, or middle level science endorsement from the New Hampshire Department of Education? Evan needs through marriage who has two children in middle school. I'd like their science teacher to know something about science. Okay? I don't want it to be an appointment of convenience again. The New Hampshire teacher certification requires. I know you know this. I'm not just New Hampshire. Teacher certification requires a bachelor's degree from a state approved educator preparation program, a supervised student teaching placement and passing scores on the Praxis Core Academic Skills and Practice Subject assessment exams. The New Hampshire Department of Education's Bureau of Credentialing issues a three year beginning educator license. Once these requirements and a criminal history background check are complete. So.  For our students,  I hope that Mr. Kinston has met all of these requirements. Okay. And that you can say that to the community without doubt. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Mr..
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Is there anyone else who would like to speak tonight? Okay. Whoops.

[63861-189] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment (announced as 'Miss K | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. All right. Anything else? Let's go.
TEXT> Okay. So one of the things I was asked to report about was the curriculum that we're using. Now, I'm going to describe one of the programs that was part of our curriculum. And right now particularly focus on  Payne five. There's components of 6 to 8 as well in there. So I just wanted to preface that. So right now what.  Using the board approved I believe it was going to salt back in 2020 324 wit and wisdom and the program for literacy. It was adopted and a believer that piloted and then being used from key to five. It is available to eight and I'll get into that in a few minutes.  It is a program that's from a company called Great Minds. They do also have, Eureka math. And we do use that at the elementary level too. So it is just really designed to help with reading comprehension. And one of the things that talked about is, you know, what was called basal readers back in the 90s, things like that. It would be an excerpt. It would be, you know, like four pages of a book. And basically, if you want to read the book, go up and on your own and do that. And some kids did, some students did. So this one it does claim to be and I'm not saying anything about the quality or not quality of what evidence before working on this, where students are able to go into the text or able to get into the deeper part of it, is an actual physical effect. So they might have a love that dog a book by sharing  for the students, are able to read it from start to finish. They're able to work with the  teacher.  And, you know, really work to make sure that they understand what it is that has so much content. Lots of topics over. And it does really start and it doesn't, you know, skip around from different things. So one of the areas that I'll show you right here is if unstoppable. You see, this is an interactive piece. So this for example grade four, there's essential questions at every grade level. And that drives the instruction. So particularly in grade four you'll talk about the Revolutionary War.  Give this mean size. You know the British side of the American side  as we came to known to be, you know, what are the pros and cons, things like that. So students approach from different angles. Each this shows the, family letters per se. And it just shows what's going on, what's happening and can't say anything is happening. And, you know, going out in families are aware of this. So I wanted to show people are aware of this resource. It just goes over a general, topic overview of the module, what's happening, what stories are being read. Now I'm going to come back to the art and science, a little bit of reading. So it may not be every single text. This is where the art of reading comes in. We're going to talk about the science of reading. The art is where the teachers are paid. Professionals are able to come in. They may be able to say, I really feel that this, text the students are reading, I want to bring in as other text that supports and come back to the central question comes to the same topic, but it might be a different text. And so we want to make sure that the scope and sequence that are following follows the same essential questions, which is aligned to the New Hampshire state standards. This is an approved piece. It does follow the science of reading. And so it just goes over a lot of different topics. So there's particularly for  modules every year, they can be in depth. They can be six, eight weeks. Sometimes students are teachers are beginning. It might be a little bit longer than 6 or 8 weeks. We don't want to go too far into it. But there's also a module. At the beginning, we have responsive classroom classrooms where the first part of it is like, how do I, you know, learn to navigate things in a classroom. And so module zero in witnesses and goes along with it, it just sort of talks about if I if I'm new to the district, new to the school, what is this look like in  wisdom? It goes over all the procedures that are in there so they understand the components of it. And so that's in there as well. And it's just a nice overview. So what right now we have it is kindergarten to grade five. We are looking at  six seven and possibly eight. We're going to talk a little bit more about that. That will be for a grant. I know you're going to come up with that question later on. And as a pilot, we can do that through the grant. If it becomes our regular program, then we would that we would be supplanting and taking away.  So we would have to fund that locally.  We want to look at that. So students in K to five have had a little bit more continual, reading of these programs. As soon as we give us something else at the sixth and seventh grade that would add on to what they've been doing. And it's a structure that they're used to, and they're familiar with everything there. So that's a possibility. We're still discussing right now, but just as an overview, just to make sure everybody's upset. And then so  just a little bit about the why. So if you haven't read Doctor Scarborough's Reading Rope, it's a really intensive but a nice comprehensive look at reading and talks about all of the ways that readers come into reading. And so, one of the things that they found with the science of reading is that some of the programs and approaches that were used before  didn't do all of the research that was involved in this. So, yes, students may have been reading, but it didn't follow the science of reading. And so literally they would do just like they would do a hypothesis, improve it, things like that. So this particular program does meet and under the science of reading  component, but it has background information. And we'll talk a little bit more about that. Vocabulary has a language structure. It has verbal reasoning. It has literacy knowledge.  For  phonological awareness. What is the sounds look like all the words when you talk about phonemes and graphemes, you know, decoding a lot of people are familiar with decoding. And then encoding is when you're decoding is when you're breaking apart words encoding. So you're putting it together and learning style words site recognition. We'll talk a little bit about that at some point in time. So I'm just glad to be getting to some education pieces. So we went. Right now the students have a consistent experience. We're looking again to try and build it up a little bit later, too, that they're not quite as comprehensive. There's I think a lot of things happening last year. We want to go back to that this year in trying to make sure that everybody has the same experience in a similar way. Again, it's that art of reading. So they have some of the same topics. If you change from it's not going to be relevant this year because we don't have students that would transfer because all the grades will be aligned. But if you would change from Maple to desired last year, you want to kind of ensure your students are getting a very similar experience this year, it'll be a lot easier. The grades are aligned. And so it's just a matter of you would we don't anticipate longer students would change. But if you had for some reason change, the similar topics were being discussed at all grade levels. Again, so we talked about all the things that the stories bring, and it's a very comprehensive program and that, you know, it's built into a big approach with literacy and music and art and all of the contexts can be our  areas to be involved in this and, you know, being able to bring it in. So all our unified arts are specialists could be able to be part of this. We're going to talk about where the music come into this. Where did ask permission this where do some other PE things like that. And we're going to talk about that this year. So this is the literacy block. Elementary has a little bit different literacy block than the middle school. But it's very similar. And so they do small in large group work. They might do some independent work where students, the data might show might be more intensive support. And that might come into the consumer, it might come into a title one or intervention place.  But we talk about all the things that are happening, with, again,  the phony and the sounds of it's the graphemes, the words, the letters working, you know, dog, dog. And students have to understand that it's the letter. And then the sound of the letter makes, and so they have all different times during the day, the partner reading,  we're working on the foundations or the community awareness and other perks they're looking at as well, on understanding the phonics of how what the letters mean and what they say. We measure this from the assessments and  wisdom, but then we also use the dynamic indicator of basic early literacy skills, and that we're looking out. So bring that out. That can do cover from pay to eight. And we're looking at piloting that as well beyond the fifth grade. And so there's a good measurement that's there. And so then this would be a tier one approach we're looking at again K to seven at least possibly K to eight. And then making sure it's comprehensive across all of our elementary school grades and things. So in the structure of Witan wisdom it has different components. So like the wonder section if you want to dive deeper into it, if you click on that these are hot links and it'll show an overview of what it is and talks a little bit about, what happens in that time. And so the students are going in. They're really learning  about all of the different components about it. And, I don't want to, to long, but at the same time, like each section is about just like, here's the overview of the text itself. Then it's just sort of like, let's listen to it. You'll hear about close reading and going back in a second time, a third time perhaps for reading and finding out more information. You know, your understanding. What is it saying to you? I'm sure if you were like me, as this reader beckoned, you know, required reading in high school and things, you read The Great Gatsby, you read some things. Maybe you didn't interact with it, maybe you didn't really, you know, take it in. And so it was like, I read it. But did you really comprehend it? Do you really understand what's happening? And so that's what we want to make sure that everybody is getting that experience and knowing what the reading and then why they're reading the things to. So there's different levels to it. And again, it goes back to just, you know, there's the literal word meaning a word. There's a figurative meaning of words. There's a lot of things that can go into a story that just students may or may not know and understand. So that's our job is to help them come to a story with more schema, more background information. And then where it goes. So I highly suggest if you're interested in this, click on each of the links. It gives you more information about it. But just as a caution. So if you're coming home and said, hey, we didn't get to all the modules and we might not, and again, we're building it out. That's part of my role this year, we'll be meeting with all the classroom level teachers and really talking about how far do they get, what's happening, and meeting weekly and just reviewing everything. This particularly starting with Ela, we'll be getting into math eventually science, social studies, things like that.  And there's a lot of unified arts as well. So this is not the curriculum. This is about one program in our curriculum series. And so again, just going back, this is going to be a while. It starts with the module zero and moves forward. So right now probably about fewer than 50% are consistently. And I don't mean this is a negative piece using it as a scope in sequence. I think just in the last few years, this is a position,  that has not been the way I think it should be in terms of, you know, it's not necessarily fidelity to the program, but just understanding there's a place that we want to make sure that everybody is adhering to and really kind of checking in. Again, that art of reading comes into. It's like they can deviate a little bit as long as the content standards are covered. It doesn't have to look exactly like that. But if you're a new teacher and you really need this, it's right there. It's scripted. You can take it. So that's where we'd love to be able to have make sure teachers have the ability for that art, that they think they can take as much out of this as they want to, or they can bring it in again, augmenting it, but not necessarily supplanting it to taking over as we still get the same instruction, topics and things to get to the standard. So  our vision is by the end of the year, the classrooms will be following consistent sequence, following the standards for New Hampshire and but then also looking at the art and science and just making sure that everybody understands how to bring this in. We're not trying to and the  teachers are watching this. We're not trying to say, oh, you should be on this page at this time. That's not at the intention is,  but we want to make sure across the whole school and in this particular case, it's now school instead of schools. But everybody has a very similar experience. And they know, you know, similar things. So again, our job is to make sure I'd be slavery and the teacher might be a little bit more, needing more support than, you know, veteran teacher. And that's where again, that art comes in. So  more to come with that. But I just wanted to give an overview. Some people may not be familiar with that. And you know, again, it's a program doesn't teach teachers, the teachers, you know, students and teachers do that. But we have to trust our  teaching staff and then make sure we support them if they don't know what to do. So  we're excited about that. We're getting to more into other grades. Right now, my primary focus is looking at the elementary ages and really going up the continuum. This is start more to come. We'll definitely more. Come on.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have six quick things. Yeah. Surprise for me. Right. So about curriculum, Don, I know, so I did read the the implementation guide is

[63861-211] Don Lavalette | School Board Member | 2026-08-05
PREV> Tim Broadrick: So, so three credits in math for New Hampshire high School. Graduation is what's required.
TEXT> Maybe I'm going to clear this up or make it muddy. So essentially all of these I can statements are there for the state. Right. So these are all the things that cater to students need to have. And language arts. Our job if you will, as, as a school is to find a program that helps address those. Yes. And so that in effect becomes our quote unquote curriculum. Yes. And we look at that and we say, here's how we do it. We do it with this book. We ask this question, and that's where the educational classroom instruction comes in.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Now you say, we've been using this. I ask for. Documentation. And to me, if it's all computerized, I don't know. I don't understand why I can't get it.

[63861-218] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2026-08-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Yes, there are on the side you can go into your instructional. Whatever you do.
TEXT> And I imagine that below that this is what's expected of the students coming into the course. Since it's all computerized, I don't understand why I can't look at this.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Do you want a copy of a tech like so? Again, these are trade books so we can show you, you know, like if you look at the link sagu

[63861-230] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: where are the reasoning and footnotes for all these changes? Because I remember when Mary Henry was here, every time we looked at this thing.
TEXT> Well, I mean, we don't as as I just said, just today, the finance person got started on Monday. And so we've only had one person in the finance department. And so for tonight's meeting, we don't have a summary of identifying all these changes. But we will be doing that. So so changes to an approved line item budget should not be made. Approval period. That's a sentence, right? If the board transfer money between functions in the budget, the business administrator or I  will write a memo recommending those function transfers and you will vote to make them. And that is the record of that. If you tell me to move money around within an approved line item budget, I will not do it right. Long before he left, Matt Angel complained to me that individual principals were still moving things around all over the place, and he couldn't keep track of it. So what he probably meant was that some of our wonderful, hardworking, well-meaning, outstanding principles are the ones had run out of money somewhere and were asking if they could spend it from somewhere else where they still had it. It wasn't an ask. So within a function, it will be when we're approving everything in with a purchase order within a function, I will not transfer money between lines, I will not do it, and I will not allow a business administrator to do it. However, we are allowed administratively to spend money within the function that exists in one line, but not in another. So for example, at the middle school there's an 1100s function. That's the general education function. That function, the 1100 code will include teachers salaries, teachers benefits and regular education classroom supplies. Let's say we're not fully staffed just to pick a wild example. That means there would be some extra money in the lines in that 1100s function  that pay salaries and benefits for staff. And let's say all of the money in the supply line gets spent. But then in February, there's something going on, and the principal and a group of teachers really want some supplies to do something that's going to be good for kids. They would be able to come to me, and I could then authorize a purchase order, knowing that the supply line was going to appear upside down on your report. I would not move money. I've said it three times. I might say it again. It's really, really important. Some districts do this. Don't move money. Show the leftover money in the salary and benefits lines in the 1100 function, and show the supply line as overdrawn.  And at the bottom line for that function in our report, you'll see we're still to the good. Overall, we can do that without school board approval unless you don't want us to.  But we cannot move money between functions, and I will never allow anybody in the business office to change lines, and my company will support that. Mike will feel very good about that. Yes.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Other questions on the finance.

[63861-256] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Unidentified board member: Yeah. It's not it's not the it's the safety number. And so I guess why I'm mentioning it is because I think that number was higher.
TEXT> The nurse's office will be staffed this year. I didn't specifically mention that, but it is written in this report, which is public and posted on our website. You can read it and you have read it. A couple of you asked me to talk a little bit about athletics, so I will. So I have found little written and not a whole lot of even anecdotal evidence of any regular documented evaluation or appointment process for any positions in the athletic programs. I have also not found evidence since 2023 of the superintendent even approving or signing contracts for coaches. That is not consistent with state law or regulation. The law requires the school board to appoint, upon nomination by a superintendent, certified staff. Certified staff, meaning those whose licenses are issued by the state Department of Education. So in addition to certified or certification eligible teachers, that includes certified administrators, principals, assistant principals, central office administrators who are certified by the Department of Education, I nominate you appoint. All other staff are hired by a superintendent unless the board reserves that authority for itself, which you may choose to do,  or the superintendent chooses to designate that authority to another, which I have never done. I sign every contract because I have to answer to you when I don't have enough money to pay everybody. So by signing every contract and approving every higher, I know where the money is coming from. That is the way it works. That's the way it's worked at my other schools, and that is how it's going to work here until you change it. The SREA agreement  which covers only certified teachers includes a wage scale with teachers who serve as coaches. It does not apply to people who are not members, or I should say covered by. Not everybody covered by a union agreement has to be a member of that association. So there's a distinction between the two things. That scale applies to anybody covered by that agreement who's hired as a coach. This is true for people who do extracurricular activities, too. So if there were a director of a school play write a drama coach hired from outside the school, a negotiated agreement with the SRA would not apply to that person. You the school board, could choose to apply that salary scale or that stipend scale to everybody if you wanted to. I have found no evidence of the school board being asked, is this what we want to pay people? I'm going to ask you that question at some point. That doesn't mean you're going to say no, does it? You might say, absolutely, keep doing that. What I have said to administrators is you don't have the authority to do this.  It's my job to make sure the school board makes the decisions that our school board decisions, and that is one I have assigned. The, I've assigned Mr. Beaupre, who was the high school athletic director, to be the athletic director for high school and middle school sports. He also has some responsibilities to help out during the day at the middle school. I have outlined here and I know you have all read it. And again, this has been public, I think, since Friday evening. The process I expect an athletic director to go through.  It's really not that different. It's a lot. It's less rigorous, but it's pretty similar to what I expect a principal to do with teachers or with office staff secretaries. It's what I expect a director of facilities to do with custodians. Any position where we're offering people employment from year to year, including those who might be eligible for tenure  under state law, which doesn't apply to any stipend, position coaches, drama directors or anybody else. But even where someone is eligible for tenure protection, I still expect some system of annual evaluation,  and I expect the documents that describe what that supervisor and employee talked about during that evaluation to be submitted to the central office, to be included in that employees personnel file, not a second person or file kept in a school. That's no good. Each employee has a single personnel file there in the central office. I, I do think that we have some work to do. By the end of the summer,  to move some files around and get them all into the central office. I also, again, I have serious doubts about the rigor with which some of these processes have existed here in the past. So I'm exercising my authority where I need to, and I know I'm going to do things that people don't like, and I actually don't love that. It's not what I set out to do when I roll out of bed in the morning. But there's a lot to do here, and I'm trying to get it done.  Everyone is allowed to disagree with my decisions, and you have ultimate control over what I do, which I respect. So we can go to an on public meeting anytime we have to. And I will listen to you always. The outline include is not a finished product. I will work with the, the two principals, middle school and high school and the athletic director to fine tune that. But it will be in place this fall. It will not negotiable be in place for the entire year. We're a little late, from my perspective on even hiring winter coaches, so I need that to get going to and and I've started that conversation with Mr. Beaupre as well. I think that everything else you've wanted me to talk about, I've made completely public. And again, people are allowed to disagree with me. I actually do very much respect that. I don't set out to do this kind of thing. I have to make several decisions every day, and some of them don't seem to have a lot of good answers. In the business office, since Matt Angel's departure, early last month, we've made some real progress. So Bob gonyea, our new finance director, started work this week on Monday. He is the one who went through the expenditure report and put the flags in it for me today. He's a formal former chief financial officer of West Central Behavioral Health, among his other accounting experience. And, we're having a good time so far. We are making arrangements with Lori Mallory as soon as she's able, who retired from that role just at the end of June to come in and help with Bob's training. That seems to make a lot of sense in terms of being able to access things easily and understand how processes have worked, even if there are some that we might be looking to change. I've been negotiating, along with Mrs. Savage with a certified, experienced school business administrator. That topic in detail is exempt from public discussion because the negotiations are pending. But I'm happy to talk more in nonpublic. In fact, I need to with you this evening, which is one of the reasons I included one of the letter codes next to the proposed motion to go to nonpublic tonight. Shifting gears, from business office specifically to central office in general. Sometime a couple of months ago, when I was visiting you here, I gave you a draft central office organizational chart that introduced the idea of splitting student services into a dedicated special education role and a separate student wellness access and counseling role. That's described on one of the nine domains of district operations  sheets that's hanging around here as part of our recovery planning purposes. The SAS grant that you saw on, Miss Kennedy's report tonight, explicitly is allowed to fund something like that. It is I. So you're you're going to hear me contradict myself. Bill. Get ready. It's going to be great. I don't love using grant funds that aren't renewable year after year for personnel, because it's. I think about publicly appropriate example. You you try something and then they hook you on it and then you don't have the money to keep going. So I get really nervous about that. Now, some of our grants, this is where I myself are intended to be used for personnel title ones. A great example we are title one allocation is actually pretty predictable. And in Claremont, because of our demographics, our student demographics, it's more than $1 million grant. That's our biggest grant program. We should absolutely be using that to fund positions for title one intervention teachers. And we do the biggest activity in the title one grant here, and probably in most other districts. Two is to fund salaries and benefits for title one teachers. This grant is explicitly supposed to fund more staff for student support.  One of the allowable purposes is a partnership with with a local mental health organization to bring more counseling staff into the schools.  Under this grant, we have entered into a memorandum of understanding and written in activity that will be approved by the Department of Education to have a full time employee of West Central Behavioral Health working in our schools as much as possible with Medicaid eligible students, so there can be some reimbursement on their end  as part of that. But our cost gets paid by the federal grant. The other allowable personnel cost is this role. So 90% of the role, the job description I. I don't generally ask you to approve job descriptions. I write job descriptions. But what I'm asking you to approve is the creation of the role so I can hire somebody to do it. So I've given you the job description. So you have something to base that decision on. And 90% of the cost of salary and benefits will not come from the budget for at least the next two years. That does create the problem. I already told you that I don't love right with grant funds, but if I have two years to find other efficiencies in the budget so we can keep doing this, if it's good for kids and good for the district,  that two years is long enough for me to do that, I can do that. And we will have some action. Those. Yeah, yeah, those are under action. I wrote two pages with references on alternative certification pathways because a couple of you asked me to do this. I've said to you before, I don't like to read to you. Do you want me to know? Okay.  If you read it, I have a lot of interest in this topic. And Claremont has always had a lot of interest in this topic, whether you've known it before, a week ago or not, because this is how you hire disproportionately compared to other districts in a district like Claremont. What does that mean? A district like Claremont is the new superintendent saying there's something wrong? No I'm not. What I'm saying is we have this is a fact, relatively lower teacher salaries  than some other school districts that you can drive to within 30 minutes of Claremont. That's a fact, not a criticism. That means in a competitive labor market, we have a structural disadvantage in hiring. So if five people are applying for four certified math positions in Lebanon, Hanover, Claremont and someplace across the river, and our salary scale is the lowest of those four,  it's probably predictable that the most experienced, most educated arguably, but not necessarily most qualified because certified and qualified mean very different things, actually. But that candidate who might get offered the job all four places will probably more often than not go to the one that pays the most. Probably not always, but it's likely the next candidate with the most experience and education and qualifications, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. At least on paper. We'll probably go to the next right and so on, which means at the end of this process, not all the time, but often we Claremont historically before it was you and me, is probably looking at the candidates who are more likely to be looking at either an entry level job right out of a prep program or an alternative certification.  This is reality. My goal is to strengthen alternative certification in New Hampshire, because we can't change the labor market as quickly as we can do that, in my opinion. So this year, I look forward to working with the Board of Education and the legislature on strengthening the alternative pathways in New Hampshire. I'll leave it at that unless there are other questions.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Any questions from the board? Okay. Let's move on to action items. The first one under action item is a transportation update that's in your packet. It gives the proposed

[63861-258] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: move on to action items. The first one under action item is a transportation update that's in your packet. It gives the proposed start times of the business and Maple Avenue School. And it talks about start times and it talks about, Sara and Paris.
TEXT> So before I, I'm sorry to jump in, but you will note this is marked confidential. I didn't post it online, and it isn't in some of the spare copies of the binder that I brought. I there's a procedural step here where I have to talk to the SRA. That meeting is already scheduled. I don't anticipate the problems. So what I'm looking for from you tonight is if you want to talk about it in on public, we certainly can. But if you're okay with the basic idea, which is we have kids, we have older. So for people who don't know the basic problem, we now have younger grades at Disney Art, older grades at Maple. What if a first grader and a fourth grader live in the same house? They're from the same family. We don't want to run different busses for the two schools at different times. We want a bus to pick up both of those children from that home. This proposal is that they will go to Disney first without being specific about the times. Drop the younger children off, then go to Maple in the afternoon. You'd do it? Yeah, yeah, it's written down, right? This is. This stuff gives me an ice cream headache. The principals did a great job and they worked with Pamela on this. So I think I can take care of the procedural  details with the Sri provided that goes well. I just want to make sure that the board would be comfortable if next week we make a public announcement because families need to know what some of my kids getting picked up. What's that going to look like? It applies to the bus, but it also applies to parents in one car with two kids dropping one kid off at one school and the other kid. And so there's a we just can't open both schools at the same time, right? It just won't work, right? Right. Either way, even if you wanted to start the school day at the same time at both schools, some kids somewhere are going to be standing around for a period of time. In that period of time is whatever amount of time it takes the bus to get from Disney to be. So I think they did a good job. I think it's going to work fine. I just I wanted to bring it to you tonight rather than waiting until the 19th, because that's too late, right? For families.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Is there any action you need from us?

[63861-319] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-08-05
PREV> Tim Broadrick: Yeah, I think I gave this in my report that that Katie, who works on grants, has started. Bob, the new finance director, has started. And I've had some interesting conversations with a certified, experienced business administrator.
TEXT> So let's,  take. I would like a motion to approve  of the student wellness access and counseling position.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: And that is in the book here. And 90% of this will be covered with assessed SaaS grant.

[83974-66] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, and grants (announce | 2026-07-21
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: star assessment to give us a more well-rounded approach to what's happening with data, and then some more information about where we are with grants. So, Bethan Drinker and I have been working closely. She had been the grants manager for the last several months.
TEXT> She and I will be working in partnership to look at some of the grants and making sure that we're doing some drawdowns to bring in some more additional funding.  So title one, we have some additional resources. Just a quick overview. Title one covers for improving educational opportunities for low income students to meet academic standards. Title two covers funding for professional development for educators  to enhance their teaching skills and improve student outcomes. Title for covers funding to enhance student learning through the arts, music, counseling, health education, and to provide a safe and supportive school environment. We also utilize title five funding which is for sport rural education to enhance opportunities for students in rural communities.  We also have obtained funding from the idea the individuals with Disabilities Education Act. So it's funding to support students with disabilities to receive a free, appropriate public education or faith, which is necessary for services and supports. And then we also receive funding from the Perkins Grant, the Carl Perkins Grant, which is used to enhance the quality of vocational education so that students are well prepared for the workforce. So those are the  sources of our funding. We have a variety of activities under those sources.  With that we are utilizing title one, title two, title for title five and the Perkins I'm an ID, a process of completing the.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: It's called the education. Excuse me Elementary and secondary education act that a the consolidation application for next time in fiscal year. So this will allow us to streamline all

[83974-69] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, and grants (announce | 2026-07-21
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: that I'll recognize soon. Sharing out all the initiatives, particularly right now, focus on math and literacy. They also are working on some field trips and to bring the learning to life. We do appreciate where the opera House and RECs department. To the pool.
TEXT> To make sure our students have some activities that go along with the learning. So we also have extended school year for special education students. That's easy. That is at Disney right now.  Jen Maynard and a lot of staff are working on that, and we appreciate their work to make sure. So that is students who there is their individual education programs will support this need. If they did not have it, they would further fall further behind this summer. So those students, as part of their IEP come to school and they continue their learning throughout the summer. And so that's well underway. We have some summer tutoring happening for different students that are in need. There's also the leadership red, white and Blue camp, the show. Our school resource officer, Crystal Simons and Vicky Bono,  are working with students from elementary schools to prepare them for leadership roles. And so it's a nice transition  from fourth and fifth, fifth and sixth grades and their leaders from the elementary school to middle school. And this is also a grant funded program. And then we have credit recovery at the high school.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And we appreciate maybe Ryan's is overseeing that with Doctor Harrington and making sure there's a variety of other staff members are involved. You can do all the recognitions next

[83974-270] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (started 7/1/26; ASR renders the name 'Broderick | 2026-07-21
PREV> Tim Broadrick: us to talk intelligently to the public and explain why we would really love for you to vote, to let us put $200,000 in the Capital reserve fund, so we can do the next thing that we need at one of the schools, business administration.
TEXT> I don't really think I need to talk about more, but I'm about to, so I'm going to move on for now.  Curriculum instruction and assessment. It is one of the fundamental blocks in our success. And yes, it's the one that seems to have the most to do with student outcomes. But if we can't pay the bills, students are going to suffer. And I don't have to explain that to you. You've just lived it, and it's been terrible. School operations is everything in my mind that principles are responsible for. The bells ring, the schedules run on time, I throw transportation under there,  all those sorts of logistics and thank God for principles.  And then human resources, which has also been a real area of need here, where procedures just simple basic dates, schedules and processes can make you really kind of easily successful. But an absence of those things creates utter chaos. And again, you have a few hundred staff members here who can tell you over the last few months trying to get their contracts for next year what it felt like, and it hasn't felt good.  And then finally the ninth one along the top here is technology. And again, 30 years ago, I wouldn't have said this is part of the foundation  of a high functioning school district, but it certainly is today because on the infrastructure side, a lot of most of our security for schools is related to technology.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: We have state law that requires us to provide certain security measures in our technology and then integration to support curriculum and instruction. So so here's why I'm taking the

[83974-316] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (started 7/1/26; ASR renders the name 'Broderick | 2026-07-21
PREV> Tim Broadrick: do with Michelle at the beginning of the summer. Moving on to the middle school, I think it's fair to say that the middle school represented everyone's biggest concern in terms of staffing. So we have 15 teachers returning and eight additional have been hired.
TEXT> We also have a certified professional, not yet a certified school nurse, to work in the nurse's office, but we will have coverage in the nurse's office by qualified personnel.  We also  sorry,  there's a candidate in process in addition to those eight that we've hired and two more interviews next week. So what's the right number? There are a lot of ways to answer that question. This man's going to love this. Because one answer could be it's what we used to have. But that's not where I'm going to start, because I don't know what we used to have. I know that we have probably 325 to 330 students coming to the middle school in September, and I know that there are more in eighth grade than there are in sixth and seventh, which means we probably need one more teacher teaching eighth graders than we need teaching the others. I also understand roughly how schedules work and what teachers need for prep time is so just dividing the kids by, say, 20 and saying, that's the number, that's not the number. So the strict mathematical approach that accounts for all this would tell me somewhere between 22 and 24 will put kids with class sizes, generally speaking,  at or below 20 with certified teachers, which includes people who are new to the profession on statements of eligibility, but that is a certified teacher under the law.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It gives us other responsibilities that I'm going to talk about, but that's a certified teacher, with with support staff to, to operate the school. So that's where we are.

[83974-477] Heather Whitney | School Board Member | 2026-07-21
PREV> Loren Howard: It's it's still I don't want to see them affected negatively.
TEXT> And there are kids in high school. A lot of their kids are our kids in high school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So are we ready to take a vote on this? Yes. All right. All those in favor of the agreement, please SPI by saying I.

[23815-6] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: And we do have a recognition that we would like to do. I know that Doctor Harrington, the principal of the high school, was going to do this, but he's been called away. Family sickness. And so Doctor Broderick is taking over for him tonight.
TEXT> And I, I hate to do this, so. Unfortunately.  Mike and Michelle Harrington have a family emergency. Michael had a few things on the agenda that he was looking forward to being here to help out with. We'll we'll do the best we can. And this in particular,  I thought it was going to be very nice to have Mike do this. I, I did not know Mike Richmond, obviously, and I apologize for that.  And yet I respect anybody who devotes their professional life to to serving public schools and serving kids. And that's what Mike Richmond did.  So Doctor Harrington wrote this. The loss of Mike Richmond leaves a profound void in the halls, classrooms and the city of Claremont. A proud 1980 graduate of Stevens High School, a Cornell alumnus, and a United States Army veteran. Mike spent his life giving back to the community that raised him as a devoted leader at the American Legion. He mentored our youth by connecting them with meaningful local volunteer work, instilling in them the same deep respect for Claremont that he carried every day in the classroom.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Mike was a truly exceptional math teacher, patient, compassionate, and deeply connected to his students. Mike had an extraordinary gift for reaching the most reserved kids and instilling confidence. He

[23815-108] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: They'll get to, you know, as a group, a collective new group, be together and just sort of ask the same kind of questions. And then next week after that, we start, all the staff come back on Monday the 24th for the teaching staff.
TEXT> And so we have a whole host of things that are happening at the elementary level. We have some things for a middle school, has responsive classroom training happening, high school level has NEA's training. And so they are going through an accreditation year. So they're going over all of their components for the accreditation.  Thursday we have the entire staff back. We're excited. We have convocation day. Doctor Broderick will be leading it. We have a host of people there.  And then they'll go back to their buildings on Thursday afternoon for building based staff meetings. And then Friday we have some Medicaid billing time. We have some,  teacher work time for just a classroom set up and things. And then on August 31st, the classroom are set up and the kids will be coming back from first grade to 12th grade. And then after Labor Day, which is a little bit longer this year because of voting day on September 8th. So on September 9th, kindergarten students come back. So we're very excited to get everybody ready. It's happy New Year. Time for us.  It's crunch time for everything else. And we know folks are ready to go. We'll be having bus schedules and everything ready soon.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So, we are excited to do that. So as I said, we have mentoring, the agreements for everything else. It is part of a collective bargaining agreement for the mentors

[23815-109] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: on September 9th, kindergarten students come back. So we're very excited to get everybody ready. It's happy New Year. Time for us. It's crunch time for everything else. And we know folks are ready to go. We'll be having bus schedules and everything ready soon.
TEXT> So,  we are excited to do that. So as I said, we have mentoring,  the  agreements for everything else. It is part of a collective bargaining agreement for the mentors  to be getting a certain amount of money to help mentor the new folks.  But then there's also leading into some recognition. So  I did a little bit last week or two weeks ago, but I wanted to get into some more details today, if I may indulge you for a moment. So we have some great news. We had a lot of professional development happening. I don't have all of the names right now because some are still finishing it, so we want to make sure we're shouting them out after they finish their course.  But as I started before. So we had the summer boost program at the elementary level. So Rebecca Bailey and Kayla Young took that. And so they were able to really help boost the literacy and math skills for the students.  Along with that, they had Ashley Burdick, according to Jenna Gage, Amy Garland, Caitlin McCracken, Dana Ryder, Maggie Sergeant, and then also Lisa Alexis Hayes and Karen McCusker, Hannah Miller, and then  Autumn Tibbetts. So we thank them all for their work.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so again, they were hosted at the middle school, but they were working with elementary school students. So extended school year this year we were able to provide some

[23815-118] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: So so if if the total enrollment is 1359, what was it a year ago?
TEXT> You know, I'm talking about before we lost our student. All the students like where our baseline was to now because  a number of students.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I can go back I had put in last year my reports every month I had a great. Yeah. So I can send that to you again right now.

[23815-241] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: board. We can talk about anything you want to change here. I did some revisions to this over the last couple of weeks to kind of tailor it to our needs, I think, what this does in a nutshell, most importantly, is really two things.
TEXT> And the first is it establishes three standards for procurement.  And that means anybody getting ready to try to purchase something on behalf of the school district must follow certain rules when they're purchasing anything that they anticipate is going to cost up to $5,000. Another set of rules that are a little bit tighter. Any time they're preparing to purchase something that will cost from $5,001 up to $20,000, and then a much tighter set of rules that only the business office can administer for any purchases above the $20,000 hold. Those numbers are my recommendations. They don't exist in state law. Some states do.  By the way, put this in law, but New Hampshire does not. These are local decisions in New Hampshire, so these are my recommendations. You may be more comfortable with higher and lower thresholds, and I'd be happy to talk about that. That is the first thing that these procedures do that I am very confident your auditors will be very happy to see in policy and procedure. The second thing is the procedural guidance becomes a training tool that all staff are required to be familiar with, and it enforces use of a purchase ordering system in order to get permission to spend district funds before spending district funds, even if that has been in place here in some documented way or in name, it has not been the practice, by and large across the district.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: I've just seen too many examples in a very short period of time of I bought this, now I need a Po that's backwards. The purchase order represents permission from

[23815-242] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: of a purchase ordering system in order to get permission to spend district funds before spending district funds, even if that has been in place here in some documented way or in name, it has not been the practice, by and large across the district.
TEXT> I've just seen too many examples in a very short period of time of I bought this,  now I need a Po that's backwards. The purchase order represents permission from the business administrator or the superintendent  to spend district funds. Without that purchase order number permission has not been granted to spend that money. It gets very difficult when people haven't been properly trained to turn to people who mean well and are working hard and really only want the best for kids and say to them, gee, sorry, we can't pay you for that, or we can't pay for that, because the money in that budget line was already spent on something else. And that, unfortunately, is what can happen. So it's very important to adopt these kinds of procedures. This is the first and most important corrective action we will ever adopt.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I think that we need to spend some time talking about this section of of his report, because I think that as a board, first of all, it's it's the

[23815-425] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: not our staff that's making those judgments. And we've gotten we've heard a lot of complaints about our staff, over. That. Over identifying or or giving away the store for placements. Those these placements are out of our control, our total out of our control.
TEXT> I won't go into the weeds, but and I know the answer to this, but it'd be helpful for the public. So when those children are placed, we have no oversight. Correct. So we are special ed team, right?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So what happens is our special ed teams are called in after DHHS makes the placement and a judge approves it. If we're lucky, sometimes we find out about that

[23815-437] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: So we're gonna have we're down six certified special education. And then where are we at the schools.
TEXT> So beyond that, you know, I mean, tragically, Mike lost a math teacher two weeks ago, but he has he has rescheduled  with help from the chair of that department. We have one teacher who's going to take on an additional class this year, and we're going to be able to open Stephen's without taking classes away from kids and at the moment, without adding a teacher. So I would say the answer to that question tonight, Heather, is the principals have scheduled with the staff, they have and are ready to open schools. So would we like to have a few more for the sake of flexibility and class sizes? Yes, but we're ready to open schools.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I know that people are going to ask this, so I'm going to ask it. Are there social studies in science, the middle school going to be year round? We're

[23815-447] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-08-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: The charge to the to the superintendent was to open for school safely. We're doing it and to provide Wright State mandated education this year. And that's not the ideal. But I just wanted.
TEXT> The staff to be safe environment for the children.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And to be able to provide the minimum state requirements. And so we are meeting those objectives right, objectively.

[23815-472] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board member (Capital Improvement Chair) | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay, bill.
TEXT> There's two issues. Here is the dress code and there's the interaction between the administration and the board.  Oh, my colleague Lauren tells me there's a picture of him 20 years ago, and he was wearing a hat in school. What brought this to the forefront again, just recently was  and  I would characterize it as a very extreme and odd interpretation to dress code.  That, coupled with a visit to the schools by school board members.  And we went into the schools, specifically the high school,  and we found a good proportion, I would say 10 to 20% of the students wearing hats. Many students wearing hoodies. But the the coup de grace as we went into  one class  where a student was wearing earbuds, a big black hoodie with the hood up, and he and his desk were facing the rear of the room. And the board members looking at this at what the heck is going on? And we were with a teacher and the teachers weren't chosen at random. These were the creme de la creme. The principal and the interim superintendent,  and nobody seemed to have any issue with it. So  I have personally a problem with kids wearing hats, especially hoodies, because they come in, often have earbuds. They hunkered down, they pull the hoodie over their head.  They're not engaged at all.  And what are we doing if you can't?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So the question is, does this proposed procedure address the issues that you have?

[23815-478] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board member (Capital Improvement Chair) | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Does it. Does it help with any of your other concerns?
TEXT> I really didn't have too many other concerns. I mean, I'm not thrilled with the idea that kids can come in with their midsection showing. I don't like that, but. Yeah, I just don't like that. And. I think it had it would address if you got rid of the hats and covered the midriff, it would go a long way in making me. Believe that we have something that is appropriate. It gives the right message to the students who are going to be adults  at the end of their high school career.  They got to go out into the working world. And I also think it imposes. A certain level of discipline where you got to come in, you take off your hat, you take off your code, you pay attention to the teacher and you do your job.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So when it talks about ears and eyes and ears must be visible to the teacher.

[23815-487] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) | 2026-08-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: I looked up the legal definition of that said define hostile. The legal definition is incitement of lawless acts or direct threats of physical violence. And so can we really. Is that is that going to be our boundary? You understand what I'm saying? Yeah.
TEXT> Just struck and you lost me a little bit because you talked about the words being contestable, but then you used the word appropriate and the word appropriate, what I deem is appropriate in my house for my kids to be to where it's going to be very different than somebody else. So again, that's another great word. Right?
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[23815-566] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Further discussion.
TEXT> My objection really is again, is that this is a pattern. And since I've been on the board, the pattern has been is that you get documents late in late in the game,  and then we are always put in a situation where, well, we've got this deadline, and if we don't whip this out or if we don't approve it, then the kids are going to go without or we're not going to get the handbook to print. It is a pattern. And I know I'm not blaming the current administration, but I'm just saying if if we're going to try to change the way we operate,  then I support changing the way we operate. And so that would be the reason that I would vote no.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So we did get this a week ago.

[23815-642] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: situation where we are both shorter of special ed certified teachers than we would like to be, and short on special ed leadership, which leaves more responsibility in my office, which I'm actually comfortable with until we can find the right certified qualified experience people.
TEXT> So what I want to talk about in overview tonight, and this is a lot of for me, this is a lot of words on one slide. But and I'm not going to read it to you, but it introduces the concept which is the most important thing  I have. Two currently I have access to for  people I know and trust,  but I currently have business relationships on behalf of the district with two  certified experienced special ed directors administrators who are helping me. I have access to a couple more if and when we need them,  but right now  I have two we're actually using. They know each other, they talk to each other, they don't contradict each other. They're responsible for discrete areas that are separate from one another. So one of them is only  helping write our idea grants and getting involved in and overseeing and giving recommendations about the Medicaid to school program. I already talked about her and that work earlier tonight. The other one has broader responsibility. She actually helped out all last year  here in Claremont and has agreed to stay on and help us now. She helped me develop this plan. Nothing here is unique or brand new or has never been done before. Some of this has been done in Claremont.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: This is a way of assigning special ed staff that divides responsibilities, and instead of assigning special educators by student caseload exclusively and saying you are responsible for everything involving

[23815-643] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: helped out all last year here in Claremont and has agreed to stay on and help us now. She helped me develop this plan. Nothing here is unique or brand new or has never been done before. Some of this has been done in Claremont.
TEXT> This is a way of assigning special ed staff that divides responsibilities, and instead of assigning special educators by student caseload exclusively and saying you are responsible for everything involving these students, case management meetings, IEP writing, evaluation and reevaluation, and specially designed instruction in the schools designed to meet their needs. Instead,  we form teams with distinct specialties a core evaluation team that does all evaluations in the district, meaning we can have some more consistency hopefully in their training. We're trying to get some people up to speed on new processes  as quickly as possible. So having a  defined pool of people who are doing evaluations and being able to focus training with them, we think gives us an advantage, I think gives us an advantage in that the next group I'm going to go way over here are the case management team. Not every IEP team meeting process is about an evaluation. Some of them are about just talking about how things are going. Amending IEPs. Renewing or rewriting IEPs depending on changes in the students achievement and experience. Moving from one school to another. There's a reevaluation for every student with an IEP every three years, but there's an annual review that doesn't include an evaluation.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Every year, the case management team would do those reviews and meetings that are focused on amendments to IEPs and IEP writing, but not the evaluation process. Again, it allows

[23815-646] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: just be honest about that. But again this is a decision based on how do we make the most of the situation we're in. Right. What's the best way to deploy the personnel and the resources we have available to us for the coming year?
TEXT> This is not a plan forever. It's not a plan for the future. But we could revisit it in the spring and we might find that it has gone well. And there are some things that we want to keep here. So the basic idea is to assign our special educators to one of these three functions, particularly allowing the people who work with kids in the schools to focus on meeting students needs every day without the distractions of scheduling meetings, writing IEPs, participating in evaluations to the extent that they may have had to in the past. There's a slide in here about the case management team. Here are some of the reasons why this could work. I'm not going to read it to you again. You have it in your pocket. This is a public document. And then those specially designed instruction CI, SDI, specially designed instruction teachers are the people who spend their days with kids every day. One of one of the teachers in the district, I heard about this in June, kind of choked on my coffee for a second. Had a case load I think of 75. I heard the board ended up involved, I think in that situation at some point in the spring, that doesn't work. If a special education teacher is running meetings, writing IEPs, and providing services  for 75 kids, something did not happen.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: That has to happen. There's just no way. So again, I don't want to oversell this approach to doing things, but it's a way of adapting to our conditions that

[23815-682] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: we haven't approved your programs in a while, and maybe some of these primary areas of disability don't really make sense. So it grew into. Hey, while you're doing this, could you just fix all of it? Which is what we what we've been doing.
TEXT> In the past. We've had friction with the Academy and with other programs related to special meeting, the needs of special education students that are of high school age, about the location of those programs. So historically, they have been located within the technical center. The rationale behind that was that kids who do not normally do well in a high school setting don't do well in a high school setting, and trying to shoehorn them into a high school was not going to be in the best interest of the students. However, there was this competing friction where we were trying to expand the tech center. So my question to you is where are we going to have these students?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So right now we're locating high school programs in the high school at Stevens right now. And I did just text Mike. We'll see if he can get back to

[23815-683] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: into a high school was not going to be in the best interest of the students. However, there was this competing friction where we were trying to expand the tech center. So my question to you is where are we going to have these students?
TEXT> So right now we're locating high school programs in the high school at Stevens right now. And I did just text Mike. We'll see if he can get back to me. But that but I know that's where we are right now is these programs will be what I asked him is will do they completely distinct or will they share space at all because they can. There's nothing in regulation that prevents us from moving disabled and non-disabled students in and out of the same spaces. What we have to have is a program that's appropriate for each student's needs. But I think I answered your question anyway at Stevens is the answer.
NEXT> Unidentified: That Stevens.

[67896-184] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Heather Whitney: Very different accounts receivable.
TEXT> So we've there's never been a individual dedicated to receivables because there aren't that many. But right. This little gap that I've suddenly become curious about kids who might go to Stevens from Leicester or from Croydon, or we should be receiving tuition for. I'm not telling you that we're not. I'm just telling you I got to go do some research and figure it out, because the two people I would have talked to about that, Matt and Lori, have both been gone.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Right. Accounts receivable isn't.

[67896-194] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: They know. They know that they have chosen other. Yeah. So you've gone to another anchor.
TEXT> So this is the so the one agreement I've been able to get my hands on so far happens to be credits. I went to their website and saw the Kearsarge as their anchor district. And then I read our agreement with them. Right. Which says that we are the anchor district. Right. Which is fine. I don't have an opinion. I would just like clarity. And if we are not, it matters because if. Right. Let's say you negotiated a base tuition rate that's 80% of your actual per pupil spending. There are some good reasons why I choose to do that, but one of those reasons would be your being guaranteed a certain number of students are going to come, or like they come because you're their school of. Right? Right. If they're saying, oh, we're going to send most of our kids somewhere else and you're not getting as many. You might not give them the same tuition deal. So if if a district I'm not saying Croydon has done this because I don't know yet. So I don't want to say something bad in a public meeting about Croydon.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: And it's none of this is personal anyway. But if it's the case that a district decided, oh, we're going to give more of a guarantee of attendance to say,

[67896-196] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair / Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-08-12
PREV> Tim Broadrick: been accompanied by a conversation with Claremont about, are you still going to honor this tuition rate? Are these still the terms under which we're willing to do this together? Well, because you might be getting five kids instead of 30 or I've made up.
TEXT> Well, additionally, with unity coming out of the saw, that was an agreement with unity for their students to come to Claremont. And now that they're separated. Does that null and void the agreement for those students? And if and that rate of tuition.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: And only if because again, I don't know yet. This is this week. This happened late last week coming into this week. If it were the case that for the

[67896-321] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right.
TEXT> And how about this if a parent ever contended that we. Because even when the child is placed out her district, it's us. We are liable for writing free, appropriate public education for the child. If if a parent later contends that the child's needs weren't met appropriately, we have to have service logs that show what's been done so in the contracts before I sign them. Every invoice must be accompanied by service logs that tell us what services have been provided. Otherwise I can't pay you because if if I can't prove in a due process hearing that the services were provided, then I'm going to have to provide compensatory services later. Therefore, I can't pay you unless you can demonstrate to me with records that you provided the services. But we have schools that and it's it's kind of interesting in this part of the state. I have had two schools say, yeah, we don't give anyone contracts. You do now.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Much, much cleaner.

[38822-25] Michael Petrin | School Board Chair (ASR: 'Michael Patron'/'Patrone') | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: mascot and some other smaller schools that are in the same situation. By doing this, it allows us to keep the hockey at the individual schools who don't have their own programs. And so that's that's the what you have in front of you there.
TEXT> So this essentially keeps our kids still our kids here in Claremont still playing hockey.  It just needs our approval.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. It's just it's just a yeah, it's a combined effort approval. Yeah. It's a combined effort that a bunch of schools are coming together for the hockey programs. Rather

[38822-32] Michael Petrin | School Board Chair (ASR: 'Michael Patron'/'Patrone') | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: A second.
TEXT> A motion by Frank. Second. Heather. Any further discussion? I think it's it's been a great program for these kids to be able to participate. I think it'll be great for them to be able to continue this. My understanding is that I think there's further approval after us. So hopefully, you know, hopefully it gained that approval. So, anything further? All right. All those in favor?
NEXT> Unidentified: Aye.

[38822-40] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: see at $0.95. And then we when we revised the budget, it was $0.39 less on the dollar. This is just the revised tax impact document that we're going to I'm going to go through right now. So the rationale it's a lot to read.
TEXT> But basically the gist of this, if you haven't read it already, it's online. We've mailed it out to all, all staff, and we've tried to answer as many questions as we could from the public, and we have some of those here  to make sure we went over. We met as administrative team today to make sure that  we were just discussing things that were coming up in the buildings as soon as a recently as a few hours ago. And just what people are  thinking about,  Did you think of this? Did you think of that when you put something together  in order to get this into the board packet, we, we we had about 6 or 7 days to get it together.  It is something of an extension of what we proposed or elements that are, are  in there of what was proposed a few years ago with a, with a restructure. We, we still feel,  even though we did this pretty,  pretty,  quickly. And we had it there, there's elements of it that that are very substantial and ultimately I think are good for kids in. And we'll go over those. And most of all, I want teachers and other people in the ground to to also  give their perspective on it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But by moving the fifth grade up to the middle school and moving the middle school the eighth grade to the high school, we feel like we would still preserve

[38822-72] Whitney Skillen | School Board member (ASR: 'Skillet'/'Skilling') | 2023-02-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: I was just curious. How does how do you teach six sections with five slots? Okay.
TEXT> What. Will what will the impact be on title one for the restructuring of moving fifth grade and eighth grade to different buildings, and the impact on students who have  i.e. and special and special needs, especially the students who require Aids or one on one aids or one on couple few aids.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Sure. So for the special ed needs and Mr.. And chime in as well. But the the IEP follows the the student. So if a kid goes up everything that

[38822-81] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Well, we pulled it. D Skinner our our free and reduced and a lunch specialist pulled that historically. But yeah, it is on the it's October 1st information that's on the on the web. Yeah.
TEXT> So for me that was important information to have when we were considering whether or not the matrix of our students had changed. Let's see what else. Also, I think it's really important for folks to know that one of the primary drivers of making sure that we have a very manageable, manageable budget to pass is that we have this collective bargaining agreement embedded in the budget. And while everything is important,  not everything can be most important when we look at budgets. And for me, being a member that was on the collective bargaining agreement committee,  I feel the single most important thing that we can do, that we can do as a board right now, is to ensure that we increase our salaries for our teachers. That, to me, is just number one. We did a good job a couple of years ago, increasing our salaries for the for entry level. And we would like to continue to reward our teachers and attract the best and brightest. For me, this budget reduction allows us to do this in the future. It also allows us to build flexibility with the budget to pay our paraprofessionals what they deserve to be paid. We have a real issue with recruiting paraprofessionals. We pay less than McDonald's pays for a paraprofessional.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If we do not have flexibility in our budget years down the road, we will not be able to go with those eclectic bargaining agreements that we need to go

[38822-96] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal, Disnard (first name spoken here; surname  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Unidentified: There's going to be.
TEXT> Well good evening.  Thank you for offering us a chance to kind of share some thinking.  As Mr. Tempesta shared with you, it's been a very quick 6 or 7 days to to flush out some thinking on this, but we really just wanted to touch base on,  reasons we can really get behind these this transition in a model because again, we're all focused on what are the benefits for children. And so really our conversations have been  if these changes are made. What are the potential benefits for children. So Christina is welcome to start with. If  preschool came into an elementary school, she doesn't have much of a voice. I think by the time we get to Frank, he's got a good voice.  So excuse us for that.
NEXT> Christina: Sure, I can start. I lost my voice sobbing today, so I apologize. So some of the benefits that we kind of talked about as a preschool is right now

[38822-97] Christina | Preschool / early childhood program director, Tech Center site (surnam | 2023-02-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: the potential benefits for children. So Christina is welcome to start with. If preschool came into an elementary school, she doesn't have much of a voice. I think by the time we get to Frank, he's got a good voice. So excuse us for that.
TEXT> Sure, I can start. I lost my voice sobbing today, so I apologize.  So some of the benefits that we kind of talked about as a preschool is right now  being alone at the tech center. It's kind of hard to access all of the supports that would be in a regular school basis. So, having access to staff would be one big thing. So today I subbed in a classroom because otherwise if I didn't sub, I would have had to shut that classroom down. I had five staff out. If we have access to other  staff in the elementary schools, we don't have to look at that being a possibility. We can access all of the staff within the building, the sub pool, all of those things and kind of have a little bit more support that way. Just having more support for  special education services, being able to work a little bit closer with the kindergarten, do some more curriculum development so that we're making sure that our students are really prepared for when they're entering the kindergarten. You know, we work really hard to get them  school ready as much as we can, but just having a little bit more of that collaboration is really important to us,  especially for our students with special needs.
NEXT> Christina: We have a really, really high, I almost want to call it a crisis right now in early childhood crisis in Claremont. I've gotten 26 bed referrals in the last

[38822-98] Christina | Preschool / early childhood program director, Tech Center site (surnam | 2023-02-01
PREV> Christina: prepared for when they're entering the kindergarten. You know, we work really hard to get them school ready as much as we can, but just having a little bit more of that collaboration is really important to us, especially for our students with special needs.
TEXT> We have a really, really high, I almost want to call it a crisis right now in early childhood crisis in Claremont. I've gotten 26 bed referrals in the last three months. It's not even been four months. These students are are really significantly behind. There are lots of reasons behind this, some of it being, you know, coming out of Covid. Some of it's looking at our socioeconomics in Claremont and some of it's looking at screens. And what's that doing to our students language. And now I have all these three year olds without any language entering the preschool environment. So,  I think being in an elementary school, we can get a little bit more creative about how we can service these students and what preschool can look like. I think Ben has my notes. If I missed anything.
NEXT> Ben Nester: You had. All the. Lead points. Yeah. One thing, you can align. The curriculum a little better, you know, and so that we are, you know, perhaps improving our, our

[38822-104] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2023-02-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> We're going to you know, increasing instructional minutes for the kids is another advantage.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much.

[38822-106] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal, Disnard (first name spoken here; surname  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much.
TEXT> I had just a couple of other things  too, that we also want to  build our school families as quickly as we can. And bringing preschool into the fold early brings that entire family into our school, into our school mix early. So services such as guidance and our social worker again, additional supports not just to students but to families as well. We also want to think about the goal of every administrator here tonight. And those even not here tonight, is to think about how do we enrich a child's education even further than than what we've previously been able to do?  Really, we'd be able to enrich preschoolers in several ways, as Ben just mentioned, introducing them to what is what is PER  music library technology. They're well versed in technology, but let's channel that in a different way.  As I mentioned, additional resources and interventions to families, but also to students. We never want to hold a child back because we don't have something in place for them when they're ready to go. And that collaboration between preschool and kindergarten also affords,  better alignment and curriculum.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Having students ready, ready to go, making families aware of kind of what those expectations are. And I want to echo something that Heather said because I was ready to

[38822-107] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal, Disnard (first name spoken here; surname  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: additional resources and interventions to families, but also to students. We never want to hold a child back because we don't have something in place for them when they're ready to go. And that collaboration between preschool and kindergarten also affords, better alignment and curriculum.
TEXT> Having students ready, ready to go, making families  aware of kind of what those expectations are. And I want to echo something that Heather said because I was ready to clap. Heather, in all honesty, the two greatest resources, in my opinion, that we can give our children, our teachers and investing in preschool. And so the thought of cutting teachers certainly didn't sit well with any administrator. And so hence the creative thinking about how do we do business differently? Well, still, increasing what we offer students in preschool is, is one of those resources. And with this switch, I think we can get much closer to universal preschool because we will be gaining some room in our buildings. There is not currently in any elementary school additional room for anything,  even storage. I have teachers right here in this audience that can tell you that firsthand. So certainly looking at class size is a concern  because our classrooms are full, not necessarily with students larger furniture due to Covid.  The additional supplies that we've brought in with the wonderful programs we are adding. So there's a lot of factors to that. I'll.  The other thing, I'll be honest, I joke all the time that I'd love to have an infant program nearby as well, because when there's an infant around, nobody misbehaves because we wouldn't want to upset the baby, right?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Pre younger students bring out the best in older students. And I know at all three of the elementary schools we do a lot to partner younger and older. So

[38822-121] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal, Disnard (first name spoken here; surname  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> I have two concerns. One is a reduction of staff  concerns. Me I understand recommended targets for numbers of kids in a classroom.  Numbers are one thing. And what's behind the numbers is another level of need.  The amount of support needed. You know, what's in the best interest of each of those children, rather than them just being a number. So that is a concern for me.  My other concern is ensuring that parent concerns are heard and planned around. Right. And so that we're able to reassure families that  their children that there are benefits for their children. To this,  I think parent voice is incredibly important, and we have to listen to that, respond to that and learn from it. Because the beauty of multiple stakeholders talking is that we learn from other perspectives, and we need to ensure that we have that as part of this process.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you.

[38822-126] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: personalized and makes it the environment feels smaller. We like to recognize when they do things great, just like the middle school does, but it also allows us to continue to grow certain areas in the in the arts, in the music, in the theater.
TEXT> That in giving those kids those opportunities that they had at the middle school, but also continue to have at the high school level because, you know, we want to continue to grow those programs, but it also allows us to have eighth grade students who may excel in the eighth grade curriculum and have proven that it's not enough for them, so they don't get bored. They could essentially move into a a high school level class, or  if over time we get more and more in this, it allows kids to, you know, complete all the credits within three years and graduate early or, you know, and if we start going down that road, what does that look like? Their senior year? We can open up more opportunities to see actual job placement, get their community service that was done. So actually gives an opportunity for these students who may get bored in the eighth grade to challenge them or get their credits in earlier and offer more opportunities down the road.  It also gives an opportunity for,  bridging that gap we see sometimes coming from a middle school to a high school, what's here or anywhere else that now the teachers in the building so we can align our curriculums more, we can,  we can look at where they end up and where they begin now, because I know that's a lot.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Every year we have those transition meetings with middle school and high school, and a lot of times they're still, you know, we we think they should be going in

[38822-128] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: time I've been here and I've been in a lot of high schools, I think the biggest effect we're going to see for the eighth graders coming in is the role models and the examples that the upperclassmen will set for the eighth grade students.
TEXT> And we have a tremendous student body. And,  I'm proud of where they are and where they continue to grow. And I think just having the eighth graders see that by the time they get to the ninth grade year, you'll see a different level of maturity. You know, some of some of the cons is that we we would see in any situation is the transition. We've made great strides this year and building school climate. And I think, you know, that might go back a little bit, but we'll get back to where it is.  So I see more pros than cons moving the middle school eighth graders up to the high school. And it's not an unusual model where a lot of schools where you have decreased enrollment,  that a lot of places go to, like I said, in a 8 to 12 or seven through 12. So you can provide more opportunities  for these students.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Hold on. Thank you, Mr. Pratt. Just I want to ask Mr. Romeo, too, since he currently has the eighth graders. If he had anything to add to that, I

[38822-130] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Hold on. Thank you, Mr. Pratt. Just I want to ask Mr. Romeo, too, since he currently has the eighth graders. If he had anything to add to that, I think he was.
TEXT> The only thing I was thinking about as Mr. Pratt was talking is the opportunities that I know,  that will be afforded to the eighth graders, whether it be through the tech center,  and other classes and courses that we can offer.  And I do think and looking at all the eighth grade classes as they struggle to make that jump into high school, to be able to offer some of those things, I think we'll set them on a path quicker,  which will keep students in school. And that's really what we want to do. We want them to get an education. We want to make sure that everybody has the opportunity. And I think being able to offer that a bit earlier and being able to work with fifth graders earlier is really going to help maintain  that for our students. The other thing I want to say, which my staff is going to tell you, this is where I talk too much,  but I drive 45 minutes, 50 minutes a day easily to come here. And I pass a lot of schools and a lot of districts, some which I  applied to before I came here, but I, I drive here and I come here because I believe in the people I work with. I believe in the community that I serve, and I believe in the kids,  that we're able  to be a part of and, and help structure.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: And we're in a tough situation and we have to make some tough decisions. But I hope taking a look at this helps to keep the integrity of what's special

[38822-136] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Whitney Skillen: for our high achieving students at Stevens, specifically AP courses and, and and more rigorous electives that would make them competitive candidates to top ranked schools. I'm just wondering if you see any leverage points to increase those opportunities in the next three years. Say.
TEXT> Yeah, I think there's huge opportunities there. But before, because a lot of times,  in middle schools in general, is that for these students who want to excel as much as teachers and administrators want these students to excel, the opportunities aren't there. It's like I said, you have eighth grade students who can prove to us, you know, that they're they're excelling in their eighth grade classes. And for English class or, or  or science class is that we can meet with them and their families in the councils and say, okay, they're ready now to take eighth grade credits that will go towards graduation. And I know we have a lot of those students, but we're able to really look at the individual students on a level and offer those opportunities for them to excel, possibly complete their four years and three years and have them in that final year, experience a, a college class,  or for the students who are going right into the workforce, give them the opportunities to actually work in the field before making a major decision at such a young age of what they want to major in. But I think there's there's there's more opportunities with that than there are in the current model. We're able to raise the bar for kids,  as groups and as individuals. We'll look we're able to personalize their learning more at that stage.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Okay.

[38822-150] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Yeah.
TEXT> And I just like to finish by saying that I've worked in a lot of high schools over the years of my 30 years, and I've been so impressed. And it's pretty much what Frank says. I drive an hour from Brattleboro every day, and there are other places that I could have gone. I came here for a reason, and then when I got the assistant principal job, it wanted to apply to be the principal job, because I was so impressed with the level of dedication that the teachers at the high school show on a regular basis, watching out for each other, watching out for the students. Like for instance, we don't have a lot of we don't have a huge sub pool. They're always stepping up and covering for their colleagues that that's that's very rare, where usually that if you don't have a sub, then the students have to go to the auditorium or something and the learning doesn't take place. We have such a dedicated and I think it's across the district, but I can only speak firsthand from the from the high school, such a dedicated, dedicated group of teachers that come to work every day for the same reasons we all do, because we we like where we are and we like what we do.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And the students on top of that. Like I said, I've I've been in the urban cities and I've been in rural areas. I've been so impressed with the student

[38822-160] David Putnam | Ward 2 resident; citizens' comments | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: before I open up to the public? All right. Seeing nothing at this time, we're going to open it up for public comments. We're we're trying to follow the rule of three minutes per person. So, Putnam, I saw you first and then just. Right.
TEXT> Thank you. David Putnam. Ward two. This would be. A question to the superintendent or the assistant superintendent. It's obvious that this current situation is driven by your,  budget cut. And so if you are producing a plan of to improve student achievement, how would that compare with what you're presenting tonight? And what kind of data and information can you provide to us to prove that this plan will improve student achievement with expectations that you invision for our for our school district and our students. Now saying that one of the best things we can do is invest in early childhood development. So moving the preschools to the elementary schools, for all the reasons we heard, is a very positive things to do. In fact, in the best world, we would have a preschool program that starts when the children are two years old and they're early childhood development. Then developing an IQ for learning would be huge, and the results would really show up under in fourth grade. So. So how does this now  plan? Induced by your budget cuts?  Support the idea of student achievement to match improvements with our test scores and meet the expectations that so many in the community are relying on.
NEXT> Mike Koski: First step.

[38822-166] David Putnam | Ward 2 resident; citizens' comments | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: each level. So, that's what I'm excited about, about the, the ways in which you could grow upon it in terms of proven studies that would prove exactly where this is right now. I don't have those for you. Right? Right now, like I like.
TEXT> So what's your gut feeling about how it will improve test scores and student achievement?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So I think we're already we've shown gains already in the past three years, even during Covid of increasing that, slightly. But when we look at the historical scores

[38822-171] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR: 'Mr. Kosky') | 2023-02-01
PREV> Unidentified: Someone's got it.
TEXT> So the factors that impact student learning the most are quality teachers. And that's why if you have a class of 30 or a class 15, if the teacher in front of the students is very skilled, then students make gains. When we lose a quarter to a third of our staff every year, we can't develop that large impact quality teacher staff and the teachers who've been with us or quality teachers. And so it's a little bit of a side piece, but the teacher contract, we think is really what's going to help us retain staff. And then through coaching models, we can develop all those teacher skills, and then we see the improved student results.
NEXT> David Putnam: Okay. Thank you.

[38822-180] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mimi Rhines: So that's I think I think that's a major question that the public is going to want to know.
TEXT> Right. We would not. My my impression is, is that compressing these class sizes, moving the children the fifth to six,  the eighth to ninth allows for pre-K, right?
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: So if everything goes, all the money goes in next week and the budget passes.

[38822-196] Candace Crawford | Ward 2 resident; citizens' comments (not a board member on this date - | 2023-02-01
PREV> Unidentified: I have.
TEXT> Candace Crawford, Ward two. I have  3 or 4 points.  Number one,  the,  Heather referenced cost per students, and I did look up the data. The average cost per student for New Hampshire is 19,400. For Claremont in the same report was 18,400. So $1,000 less average cost in areas  districts close to us. Fall mountain is 19,900, Newport is 19,000, unity is 2000, Lebanon is 23 for and Cornish is 256 again, Claremont is 184, so below the state average and below all the other surrounding districts. Number two, I think that it's really important to talk about,  giving a college, you know, giving our students the ability to get college courses and have articulation agreements with various area colleges. I think it's also important for us to remember that 35% of our students don't do not go on to any further education, 35% and 25% of our beginning freshmen do not graduate. That's those two significant factors. And we've got to address that. The third is it feels like as I've been looking at this curriculum development is is so important. And getting the curriculum in line,  I think that contributes to student achievement and success. And it feels like this plan,  it's like rearranging the chairs on the deck of the boat without addressing the curriculum.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It's just figuring out where the kids are going to go, what school. Without a significant impact of addressing curriculum. And then the fourth point is, I don't think it's

[38822-197] Candace Crawford | Ward 2 resident; citizens' comments (not a board member on this date - | 2023-02-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: looking at this curriculum development is is so important. And getting the curriculum in line, I think that contributes to student achievement and success. And it feels like this plan, it's like rearranging the chairs on the deck of the boat without addressing the curriculum.
TEXT> It's just figuring out where the kids are going to go, what school. Without a significant impact of addressing curriculum. And then the fourth point is, I don't think it's fair to the voters of Claremont to make this an either or. Either you support the teachers contract and cut $1 million, or you leave the million dollars in and you don't support teachers. I don't think that's a fair comparison. I think that we can support the teacher's contract, which I do. However, we don't have to cut $1 million, and I think we need to give the citizens, the voters of Claremont, a chance to support the schools wholeheartedly. My one question at the end is a 15% reduction in staff equates to how many,  positions would that be cutting? Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Of course. 6 to 9 there guess. Yeah yeah.

[38822-206] Arlene Hawkins | Ward 3 resident, 592 Redwater Brook Road; citizens' comments (elected  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: new restructuring. Are we maintaining our commitment to our staff and the commitment to our schools by rushing into this? The physical classrooms that I heard are crowded, and if we're increasing class sizes, will students have opportunities to move around within their own classroom?
TEXT> And have we looked at certifications for teachers, specifically middle school, moving into the high school, and how how is that impacted? All of this requires time to listen, to plan, and to implement, being driven by best practices rather than a financial reduction. Will this reduction of $1 million help to advance opportunities for economic development within our own community? You know, I was very glad to hear Mr. Tempesta say that you are expanding the tech center. That's a real jewel in our community. That also can enhance our economic development by guiding our students into trades, owning their own small businesses, and pursuing further advancement. Educational support has to reflect the needs specific to our community, not minimum standards. I did have questions, many questions for tonight, and I did send them ahead of tonight's meeting. During the presentation, I did not hear them address and maybe someone can clarify to them for me tonight. Thank you. I did sin, I did.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[38822-216] Lisa Holtz | Claremont resident and elementary school teacher; citizens' comments | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right. I've seen numerous has I think I saw your hand first, so. Yes, miss.
TEXT> Hi, I'm Lisa Holtz,  I'm a Claremont  resident, and I'm also an elementary school teacher. And, I think you're going to hear I know you're going to hear a different side. The a different side of this. So the nuts and bolts of student learning are  teacher student relationships, strong student social emotional skills, and quality instruction in order to build solid teacher student relationships, we need time with each student programs such as Responsive Classroom and the time to implement them well, and teachers personal wellness. You know we need we need to have some time with the kids not running around and just doing the basic stuff, absorbing more students with into classes with less teachers is not indicative to quality teacher student relationships. As you know, each child is unique, with strengths and challenges in social emotional skills and academic skills.  This I'm wondering with,  Heather Whitney's comment about the free and reduced lunch and that we're down. Down in the in that percentage, I don't think that addresses our social emotional needs of our students. That does not address it at all.  There are kids that are that have lunches from home that have truly, they are way behind in where they need to be. And if you don't have if you don't have social emotional skills, you are not going to access academics. You will not.
NEXT> Lisa Holtz: Additionally, many of our students families struggle with basic social, emotional, financial, and academic skills are not, and they're not equipped to provide the support needed at home. That means

[38822-217] Lisa Holtz | Claremont resident and elementary school teacher; citizens' comments | 2023-02-01
PREV> Lisa Holtz: There are kids that are that have lunches from home that have truly, they are way behind in where they need to be. And if you don't have if you don't have social emotional skills, you are not going to access academics. You will not.
TEXT> Additionally, many of our students families struggle with basic social, emotional, financial, and academic skills are not, and they're not equipped to provide the support needed at home. That means our jobs as educators is even more important. Restructuring fifth grade students to CMS and eighth grade students to Stevens seems like a good decision regarding economics and maybe some academic more,  opportunities. However, it also fails to consider the social emotional needs of our younger students. In this current time with TikTok and with all the stuff that they see all the time when they go on their games and they're talking to their friends, and that's who they spend all of their time with, all of their time, they're faced with making decisions that are well beyond their developmental, emotional, social, and physical capability. Children and youth are privy to social media, just plain media, burdening peer pressure to experiment with and accept behaviors. There are far too heavy a burden for their age.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I'm sorry to interrupt, but that was your three minutes.

[38822-223] Jennifer Austin | Claremont parent; citizens' comments | 2023-02-01
PREV> Steven Horsky: Information name and ward, please.
TEXT> Oh, I'm sorry, Jennifer Austin and I just moved. I'm sorry, but now my heights. I've moved out of Ward.  Thank you. I've moved out of the state because of school reasons and financial reasons. Had to move back, but am seriously considering because my seventh grade daughter is sexually being assaulted at school. I've notified and I would like answers to figure out what's going to happen to these children because my daughter herself, her friends multiple not only female but male students are being affected by students and we have notified the proper people and it gets lost. And I understand that. I have had multiple conversations with multiple people in this room, and I understand that now  something is being worked on about this, but a parent has to stand up and I always say, oh, I wish I could go to that meeting. I should have gone to the meeting. Someone has to say something. There is a huge issue with behavioral  of a 12 year old and a 12 year old at this point that I am dealing with on a legal level where there are 12, you can't legally do very much.
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: The teacher's hands are tied between what is right and what is the law. Board of education, everyone a right to a education. I'm sorry, my blood is boiling right

[38822-224] Jennifer Austin | Claremont parent; citizens' comments | 2023-02-01
PREV> Jennifer Austin: meeting. Someone has to say something. There is a huge issue with behavioral of a 12 year old and a 12 year old at this point that I am dealing with on a legal level where there are 12, you can't legally do very much.
TEXT> The teacher's hands are tied between what is right and what is the law.  Board of education, everyone a right to a education.  I'm sorry, my blood is boiling right now. So,  not only verbally is she being assaulted, but physically being assaulted, and it's going to determine her future.  I have two more children to go through this, and I working very hard. Excuse me, but I can't continue this with this school and not feeling like these girls can say anything because they are saying we. I'm not saying something because he gets worse, he gets more mean. They get worse in. I worry for these kids who are going to have to go into this high school. You're worried about 12 year olds and 12 year olds. What is going to happen when you mix these 1213 year olds with 17 and 18 year olds, and they don't know they're in my school. I can be attracted to them. Or these boys with these girls, some dress inappropriately and they they know better, but they don't do. So we're going to be with title nines, with legal action of assault and two minutes in a hallway with a child being groped by another person, or in a classroom where they're being sexually touched and have to physically move, but afraid I'm going to hit him because I'm going to get in trouble.
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: That is words from my child. If I hit him, I will get in trouble. So I did nothing about it. If I say something, he gets more mean. So

[38822-225] Jennifer Austin | Claremont parent; citizens' comments | 2023-02-01
PREV> Jennifer Austin: action of assault and two minutes in a hallway with a child being groped by another person, or in a classroom where they're being sexually touched and have to physically move, but afraid I'm going to hit him because I'm going to get in trouble.
TEXT> That is words from my child. If I hit him, I will get in trouble. So I did nothing about it. If I say something, he gets more mean. So it went from her being sexually  assaulted to verbally picked on pictures, body shaming. And it's not just my daughter, but I'm telling you by talking to other parents, they they don't want to deal with it. I don't work full time. I just started working part time.  I really I know I'm out of time, but I do have sides of both educationally and student related concerns with this.  But I really want I had to say it tonight because this is where it needs to be said. So you guys can know  that there is a a problem with these teachers can't handle these children. I mean, I'm I'm at Turning points network today talking about  with an advocate how to handle this legally and educationally for my daughter. And I'm getting a call from the school and they're she's being sprayed in the face by another student with Fabrice. So it's never ending. And it's not even the same kid. It's it's never ending. Well, where's the teacher?
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: In the hallway, monitoring the kids during intermediate, like so. Do you understand how frustrated I am and that there is a huge concern between. Yes, it may benefit them

[38822-226] Jennifer Austin | Claremont parent; citizens' comments | 2023-02-01
PREV> Jennifer Austin: and educationally for my daughter. And I'm getting a call from the school and they're she's being sprayed in the face by another student with Fabrice. So it's never ending. And it's not even the same kid. It's it's never ending. Well, where's the teacher?
TEXT> In the hallway, monitoring the kids during intermediate, like so. Do you understand how frustrated I am and that there is a huge concern between. Yes, it may benefit them educationally. As she said, social emotionally they are not on the same level. And that I did report these to an administrator. And then after speaking with the principal, he never heard about it. Never. Not one report, one request. I requested the second offense. I said, this is a two time offense. I would like this research as assault at this point and I never heard back.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. So thank you.

[38822-234] Raquel | Ward 2; PTO president at Maple Avenue School (surname not captured by  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Raquel: My class was the first class through that wing. And then we went to high school. We went from seven period classroom a day to block scheduling, which was not, you know, at of the norm. That was what a lot of schools were pushing.
TEXT> And I can tell you as a student that grew up through this with a range of classmates,  those of us supported at home, those of us growing up in homes where we had parents who were attentive, grandparents that were attentive. We had community members and teachers that thoroughly stood up for us. We thrived. Didn't matter that we changed grades or schedules every year for 4 or 5 years in a row. Didn't matter. The kids who come home to not attentive parents or grandparents, whoever they are, housing with,  the students who are home by themselves. The students who, for example, my son brought a classmate a pair of gloves because he hasn't shown up with a pair of gloves at all this winter. Those are the kids that fought through all of their schooling thought they had. They have no one at home to to support them, and when the school didn't have enough staff to support them, they fell through the cracks. I had 48 classmates that didn't graduate as seniors in our class, 48 that had to go through CAD or another program or just dropped out entirely.
NEXT> Raquel: That's going to be a result of some of these transitions. So are we willing to sacrifice? What are we willing to sacrifice? I am not against pre-K. I taught

[38822-239] Marian Lovett | Ward 2; Stevens High School class of 2017 graduate (heard 'Mary and Lo | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Ann loves to. So I don't. Know if you recently saw, but our. US Secretary of Education had a talk called Raise the Bar on the 24th of January. And in this discussion, I found points that I wanted to research further to include grant funding that we haven't thought about what we as a nation want to do to further our children's education and our possibilities of success. And so I came up with some of these things to look into, such as the Perkins Grant. We talked about the sugar River Valley Tech Center last time, and I found through this grant that the New Hampshire Department of Education offers running start dual enrollment classes through the CTE courses, and they fund it. So if we were talking about our vision community or our vision committee of what they discussed, trying to look at these grant opportunities to fund it, because as I mentioned in a past meeting, I, I try to prioritize alternative thinking. How can we collaborate with community college, such as River Valley, who has a great childhood education program and possibly create a partnership where seminars are used at our school so we decrease funding of staff. But in this conversation we have to consider quality over quantity. So a student is more than a number in a budget. But what they are able to provide in our community and in life.
NEXT> Marian Lovett: Many of my graduates of class of 2017 still live in Claremont because I went to Sugar Valley Tech Center and they took these courses that really prepared them for

[38822-243] Jenna Gage | Second-grade teacher at Maple Avenue School; Claremont resident off Wa | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> Hi. I'm Jenna Gage. I'm a second. Grade teacher at Maple. I also live in Claremont off. Washington Street. I'm sorry, I don't know what word. I. Just decided to. Type this up as we were talking.  So going off of Lisa's points, as well as a lot of other people's  points, I believe the relationships of the students and the teachers will be affected negatively with these changes.  I've only been here for less than a year, but as I'm hearing this discussion, I was thinking of the demographic of the town and of my specific class. I'm hearing a lot of people tonight discuss the benefits of all these transitions and changes in these added electives for the students. However, I'm not sure we're all thinking of our specific classes and  our students, our kids, because personally, my students are mostly looking at my data two grade levels below where they should be. So if we're talking about all these high achievement and success rates that we want to see, we don't need these more electives, the reduction of teachers or the bigger class sizes.
NEXT> Jenna Gage: What they need is actually more teachers and more individualized instruction. In the academic areas of math and reading. The smaller group sizes will allow the students needs to be

[38822-244] Jenna Gage | Second-grade teacher at Maple Avenue School; Claremont resident off Wa | 2023-02-01
PREV> Jenna Gage: mostly looking at my data two grade levels below where they should be. So if we're talking about all these high achievement and success rates that we want to see, we don't need these more electives, the reduction of teachers or the bigger class sizes.
TEXT> What they need is actually more teachers and more individualized instruction. In the academic areas of math and reading.  The smaller group sizes will allow the students needs to be better targeted.  The students can't thrive in these added electives and choices that we're all saying we would love to see our children and students participate in if they don't have those basic reading and math skills that a lot of these students in K through five are still very behind and and lacking of So we need more teachers to help fill these gaps and help these students be on the grade level that they should actually be at.  Again, thinking of the demographic of my students in my class specifically, I thought about all the changes in transitions and I know about I teach at Maple,  the fifth going to the sixth grade or the eighth going to the ninth grade, the high school speaking from my students. And I've only known them again for less than a year. I know that the more transitions that they have, the more changes they have. Their learning is interrupted. It becomes more challenging for them to learn from other teachers and their behaviors are increased. Do we have enough staff to support all of these increases of behavior? I don't I really don't believe we do.
NEXT> Jenna Gage: I don't see their social and emotional needs being met or their academic academic needs fully being met with these changes. So I personally see benefit in keeping K through

[38822-259] Nicholas Stone | Ward 3; 2023 school board candidate (self-ID heard only as 'Next on Wa | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thanks. Thank you.
TEXT> Next on Ward three. I'm also opposed to the majority. Of this,  decision that we're making tonight.  Simply because I don't think. Increasing class sizes ever will achieve a better student outcome. That's just my opinion. I know, Heather, you said there was a couple of camps kind of in that,  thought process.  And I do agree that this is a semi restructure.  And my basis, especially my time on the board, is when we did talk about the restructure, we couldn't figure out in a year. So we're supposed to figure this out in a week.  And it just seems like it's really, really rushed. And I'm not saying this the whole thing is bad, but I think maybe if we took some more time and I know with the delivery session already set, that's kind of tough to do.  And, you know, I think there's no one who wants to have the taxes raised, but it can't come at the expense of improving our education here. That's a big reason why I ran for school board last year and also running again this year, because we need people who have just been graduated through their like, you know, tonight a lot of admin have been talking about the this big realization about the,  college credit in high school. That's not new. I did it. Marian did it when she was in school with me.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: It's not new, so I'm not sure why that's being sold as a, you know, stunning moment here. And on top of that, I just think, much like everyone else

[38822-263] Molly DeLuca | Ward 2 parent; served on the district restructuring committee | 2023-02-01
PREV> Molly DeLuca: that my kids go to Bluff Elementary. So I know we have a little bit more of a disadvantage with our population, but it is a serious concern. And even he has acted up in his class. And I'm like, that is not your behavior.
TEXT> And it's, you know, he's bored. He's seeing that these kids can disrupt and he's trying to get attention. So he's being disruptive.  So I just I don't see how you can increase class sizes.  I can't speak for any other elementary school, but at both school, I. I just think that's a bad idea.  But, yeah, just to close, you know, it's the,  social and emotional,  concern that I have about moving fifth grade to middle school in eighth grade to high school. I just really think that that is one of the most important things to think about. Anyway. That's it. Thanks.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Has everybody had a chance to. Wanted to speak first? The first round. All right.

[38822-271] Michelle | Ward 2 resident; three years on the district restructuring committees  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah, sure. Michelle.
TEXT> She'll be in war two  one. One other quick thing I just wanted to say is before we look at increasing class sizes, I want to know from Ben Nester if we are, every para that is required, state mandated in a child's e p is fully staffed within our school district. No thanks. We're going to increase last sizes but not provide the support to the students.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Mr. Pope.

[38822-273] Scott Pope | Ward 2; retired teacher, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center; | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Mr. Pope.
TEXT> Scott Pope, Ward two. Not going. To speak. To much of the budget. You probably. Already heard enough. About that except to say, I hear the school board talk about the AP students. The top ten. To. 15%, the students who need a lot of learning help, you know, the bottom 10 to 15%, your behavioral issues and all that. I just implore you have to think about the students that I taught a lot of that middle 70%, the student that just kind of gets lost because they just take the basic credits and just want to get out of school, or they get B's and sees they just get looked over because they're getting the bees in sees. Just think about that. I wonder about class sizes losing that student, because in a large class you always I taught I mean, I taught large classes, small classes and engineering. You always remember those top students and bottom students, but somehow there's about 70% of the kids that just seem to get lost in the middle. And those are the ones I've always worried about. Those are the ones. That.
NEXT> Scott Pope: Don't seem to quite make it to college sometimes or into trades, whatever. So a procedural question regarding the budgets, the default budget for 2324. And I know I'm going

[38822-311] Cassandra Edwards | Ward 3; parent and teacher at Disnard Elementary School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Cassandra Edwards: That doesn't stop at the building that comes up here too. So when we get pulled into a meeting with our principal that says the school board has boated, has approved your contract and voted to cut $1 million, and we have no idea why.
TEXT> But all we keep hearing is we're going to restructure. It gets very confusing and it gets very obviously, you've heard from a lot of educators tonight that are all about, well, what's going to happen to our kids, because that's our first priority as educators in this district. What is what's happening to the kids? We want them to be okay. But when it comes to turnover and teachers who are staying in the district, it comes down to do I feel supported? Do I feel like the rug is going to be pulled out from under me the next time I turn around? I've worked in districts when I didn't feel supported by my administrators, and I wasn't sure what was happening at the school board, and I. That's what you need to keep teachers here. We need to have a consistent staff at the Dow. I don't I don't know who HR is right now. We've had turnover there. It's confusing. The curriculum we're using has been around because we keep having turnover of personnel involved in, you know, evaluating our curriculum programs. Those are the things that keep seizures in district. That's what helps our students. And that's what I came to say.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you.

[38822-316] Arlene Hawkins | Ward 3 resident, 592 Redwater Brook Road; citizens' comments (elected  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> I just have two things to say and I'm done for the night.  I heard someone say they had been in the elementary classrooms where kids and people in the room have difficulty moving around. I see the projected class size for next year's grade three at 21 and two of the schools. That's an increase when you're already dealing with a specific size room that should be taken into consideration. Also, I heard a statement tonight about the community can come and restore the budget. And as I sit here, I think how unfortunate that our school board would have the community come forward to vote against you rather than work hand in hand with you in support of our students and our families.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you. All right. Any further. Comments from the public?

[38822-373] Whitney Skillen | School Board member (ASR: 'Skillet'/'Skilling') | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Closing activities.
TEXT> I have one more comment to make. I would like to formally request, and I don't want to make a motion for this, but just from me, on behalf of the parents of the middle school students, I need you as soon as possible to get with the principal of the middle school, investigate these accusations and events of sexual assault, and literally shut it down. I am not kidding. As a student who had experienced very similar things to what these parents are talking about, I just want to share this story. To be candid, I was in the same position as your daughter where I was groped and sexually assaulted by a student, and the teachers didn't do anything in the seventh grade, to the point where I and I'm going to admit this, to get to let you know how how I understand what your daughter is going through. It got to the point where the student touched me in the library when it was just me, him, and one other person in the library. I had to push him over the chair and then punch him in the chest to get him to leave me alone. And I don't want to see any girl in this school district have to do that.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: So I need for the parents of these boys to get them the help they need. Get yourself the help you need for the administration and the principals to shut

[38822-374] Whitney Skillen | School Board member (ASR: 'Skillet'/'Skilling') | 2023-02-01
PREV> Whitney Skillen: and one other person in the library. I had to push him over the chair and then punch him in the chest to get him to leave me alone. And I don't want to see any girl in this school district have to do that.
TEXT> So I need for the parents of these boys to get them the help they need. Get yourself the help you need for the administration and the principals to shut it down. Because this is not the first time I've heard this story. All last year, when I was campaigning and walking through those carpool lines, parent after parent of daughter after daughter was telling me about what was happening in the middle school to their children. And as an anti, I do not play. We need to shut it down. Shut it down. Little boys who are not reprimanded when they are acting like sexual deviants, turn into sexual predators and I will not have it. Not on my watch. Shut it down. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah. I am not today.

[38822-381] Unidentified | District administrator answering for the administration - Tempesta or  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: I'm going to get back to order here. I think I think we've we've asked the administration to take a look at this and make sure it's addressed.
TEXT> We have taken a look at it. We've been in the communication. That that has happened. I don't want to give the impression that we haven't done that yet. We have. So there is it is being dealt with. So I can't talk about specifics of this. I urge all of us not to talk about specifics of this and open forum like this for a variety of legal and ethical reasons for the students.
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: So my reasoning for bringing this up is so that these parents and these girls know to say something because they're not. I'm not saying that this child or these

[57867-94] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/2026; attending as guest) | 2026-06-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Correct. Hundred percent so, yes. And I think that was something we digested when we approved the budget.
TEXT> The reasons all still be holding my breath and I'll continue to counsel caution. Here's a great example that might have seen it this morning. I've had this ongoing conversation going on with some administrators about a contract with a company or a nonprofit called constellations, which provides behavioral services. People who work in the special ed field have been taught when they're getting into school and getting their certifications and in their practice. Well, these things are required by federal law. So if a student needs something to do them and so on, which is true, right? When I saw the constellations contract for the first time a few weeks ago, I asked if the administrators in special ed knew where the funding came from to pay for it. Now I'm talking about a 350 to $400,000 liability, and they did not know. So we've been working to identify where that money comes from. So I'm going to keep, you know, when that was helping you develop the budget. He and you only knew what you all knew. If there were contracts that had been signed by people who weren't. Matt. Right.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Right. Or authorized or authorized.

[57867-107] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/2026; attending as guest) | 2026-06-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Why it's important.
TEXT> Right. Sometimes but but what do I require. And I'll give you an example. This is so this is basically the question I was expecting. And this is what I think. This is what I was thinking I was going to tell you. So I think we're in the right ballpark. Nobody signs a contract on behalf of the school district whose title is in business administrator or superintendent. And I guarantee you that has not been the case. 100% guarantee you. Well, that's special ed. Administrators out of districts, coordinators, principals and others have had have never been told that they're not allowed to sign contracts until Matt has told them. Right. But by the time Matt's there in September or October and November, or realizing there are problems and sending out more directives in January or February, things were signed last summer school year. Right. So I think there could be some surprises coming. Let me. Explain everything. Doctor example I was just talking about constellations. The behavioral services contract has been forwarded to me for electronic signature already? Yeah, for next school year. Right. Because when I sat down with the two acting interim people in special ed, I said, you're not putting a signature on anything. They are all coming to me. And when I received the contract from constellations for $350,000 worth of work, I replied and said, I'm copying Tammy Cody.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Please set up a meeting with her so we can talk about this. It didn't take 48 hours, right? For me to get an email from a member of the

[57867-109] Don Lavalette | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee | 2026-06-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: all that stuff. I am not going to be told by an employee that I have to sign something, so I read it. I'm going to understand it. I'm going to unfavorable clauses out of those agreements. Figure out how we're going to fund them.
TEXT> Okay. Doctor. Doctor, doctor. Hey, do you remember that purchasing item I brought up in policy committee that had, et Cetera was allowed to sign on behalf of the district, and I said we ought to strike that. So? So we had a policy in place that allowed those people to do that. So when you if you remember back to our meeting the other day when I brought that up, I highlighted it, I said I don't like the way this sounds because it actually said school nurse and something else and then the said, etc. so the acceptor gave carte blanche to anybody to do that kind of stuff. So that's why I brought that up the other day to get that taken out the policy committee. And that's coming to the school board.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So, so it's it's going to it's going to fall to you to enforce this. And you're and people won't like it and people will be mad. But it has

