[11793-189] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (roll 'Michael Peacham here' [6]; chair  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Unidentified: Lower than that.
TEXT> I just want to make sure we're comparing Stevens to Stevens.  My other comment, I guess, is, you know, when we talk about an outside, they're not outdoor space, but a separate, off campus space. I wonder, you know, as we talk about this, what we have for space.  I also wonder about the opportunity of something similar to what we've done with other programs and maybe building a program that we could have if, you know, I'm not sure if Newport has a program or if Charlestown needs a place to, you know, if we could build something that other students could come to from to. I mean, that would help to further the cost.  If you think if we're thinking. But if we could take you know, for kids need to come in or playing field, you know. So I'm not sure where we would build that, but.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: My prediction would be there'd be so many Stevens kids in it. There's something wrong.

[11793-192] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: good success rate that when I was in the middle school principal in Hillsboro Deering, I had parents asking me to place their students in the old program because they knew that they would not be successful if they went right to the high school.
TEXT> And in the idea was that it wasn't a four year gig. It was, you know, there were benchmarks and things to achieve so that a student knew what they needed to do to get to the high school or to take at least one high school class or maybe a high school semester. And so to reintegrate them back fully into the high school by graduation was always the goal. And they did a really good job with that. And that's, you know, and I spent a year and a half on a committee to research because the school board at that time was like, okay, it's costing $35,000 to rent this place and to staff. And is there a way we could bring it in the high school and save some money? And we looked and we researched it a lot, like what you were talking about. Frank did our homework and we said, no, you know, don't mess with success. It's working. And it's working in large part because it's not at the high school. And they have their own space, their own identity. They're not being judged. They're not walking into the halls of Stevens High School with what that means to some of these kids.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: You know, the bullying thing is not the clicky thing. It they create their own world and you empower them within that school. And it does wonders for these kids.

[11793-193] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: And it's working in large part because it's not at the high school. And they have their own space, their own identity. They're not being judged. They're not walking into the halls of Stevens High School with what that means to some of these kids.
TEXT> You know, the bullying thing is not the clicky thing. It they create their own world and you empower them within that school. And it does wonders for these kids. And we saw it in those short few months  when we had it up upstairs. It wasn't perfect, you know, it definitely was having growing pains. And there was a lot of work that we still needed to do. But that's the model that I know has has done well in other schools.  But, you know, obviously it comes with a price tag. But when you when you think about the number of students that were not currently reaching and you, you know, to me that. That's reasonable cost.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I have one quick clarifying question. So under adulthood, is that where he lives or is that something separate?

[11793-210] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Unidentified: age of compulsory education in New Hampshire's 18 that 18 might be or the 18 students that might be students who are 17 who are chronically absent, but they can't be dropped from our rolls because they are still, under age and still are required.
TEXT> To be. So  they would be the drop student withdrawal number. Right? Okay. So I my thought process is slightly accurate, not 100% that these 18 are  under 18. They didn't complete because of multiple reasons. But primarily it sounds like wanting to come and socialize and not focus on their school work. Because we've given them lots of opportunities here. Three other students dropped on their own accord now  out of the student withdrawal dropped because it's separated from the 18 plus. I assume that we're intervening with the legal process with those three students at some point.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: There's not we don't have a lot of leverage. We don't have, you know, a lot of yeah, there's no chins anymore. You know, a student chooses to to not

[11793-217] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: You're right. You know, now it's too late and they're in a hole.
TEXT> And I completely understand that. And that's one of the things that's always bothered me is like back when I was in school, I know I'm old, but we got held back. We didn't advance. These children are able to advance with no repercussion for their studies, so it's making the job harder and harder down the pipe.  And I get it. I completely understand that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to have. Nick has not asked a question, and I think he wants. To. So I'm going to have him. I think I'm going to wrap it up.

[11793-230] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Heather and I've been talking'  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Unidentified: Do it.
TEXT> Kind of piggybacking off of what Steven was saying. I'm curious whether or not it sounds like a lot of these students were failed early on. And now with our new programs, is there any way to kind of slowly expand those programs naturally, or to scoot up into junior high or to make the transition? So we do not have the end that we're not dealing with the problem in high school, that they've been captured. Those students have been captured well before.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[11793-242] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: pre and during is is equal to what they will have experienced in a week in the classroom here at Stevens. So we want to go that week before April vacation. And then people can kind of recover because it is a seven day trip.
TEXT> While April vacation is going on, we would leave from Boston is $100. We can leave from Manchester. It's $100 more. Students who enrolled in the first 40 hours, 48 hours of the trip going live can automatically get $100 off if we can get 35 students or more. It's a private trip. We don't have to hook up with another school. There are a lot of benefits to that. If I say to the tour director, we're tired. We don't want to do the tour of San Juan today. We'd rather have today be the beach day. We call our shots and we're not kind of tied to anyone else. We if we also we get a $1,500 stipend from the company to use as we want. We can use it to either supplement the lunches for the kids, supplement the financial aid we offer. However we want to use that, and for every five over 39, we get an additional 250 F themselves  offer scholarships, and it's a short form by the parents and an essay by the students in order to qualify. And so you can just see everything that's covered round trip airfare, all the hotel stays overnight, security in the hotels from 10:00 to five in the morning, breakfast and dinner.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: The tour director who meets us when we step off the plane in Puerto Rico. All tickets, entrance fees for museums and everything. It's up to $50 million in liability

[11793-245] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: with Puerto Rican students and hang out with them a little bit. The Hacienda, which we just talked about, the art museum going to the coffee plantation, going to also, it's a lot of it is trying to learn some Spanish while we're down there.
TEXT> Right. And and all of that. Taking a boat tour of the Bayou Bio luminescent bay, which is at night. And they see all of that. That's a real highlight of the tour. And you can see the rest of all the things. There's one day that's just kind of chillax at the beach, and that's pretty much an overview of the trip. So we're asking for your blessing to go ahead. And the sooner we start to advertise it, the smaller the monthly amounts are. For parents to pay  through F tours, students can kind of do it. Go fund me page and send that out to family and friends so that family and friends can contribute. And the price comes down off of gifts that are given by by them instead of Christmas present, you know, put 100 bucks towards my trip, that kind of thing. It is more expensive, obviously, than the bus tours used to be. It's about $1,000 more than those. But again, we have the refund from last year and a good cushion of fundraising in the bank.  And with eight months of fundraising ahead of us, we should be able to chop off a good amount of that for each student.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions for Pat. For a motion.

[11793-249] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Josh seconds further discussion. Steve.
TEXT> Man I the only the only thing I have to say is is that,  I really do believe that these trips are good for students. The only thing that the caveat that I have to it is, is we're looking of kind of not technically out of country. It is a territory and all.  That's the biggest concern I have with Covid spikes. Are we going to be back in a situation where we've done all this work to have it? Yeah. Fingers crossed. It it doesn't happen, you know, but realistically, and it's my bigger concern with it being,  pretty much in Puerto Rico than somewhere more localized.  You know, New York, DC something, something controllable because, I mean, we're no matter where we're going to make the wrong decision, no matter what, I guess. But I guess the bigger thing I have is it's tough to say yes, but also not easy to say no.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Further comments.

[11793-252] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Would they have a vaccine requirement? I don't think so. They do have a vaccination.
TEXT> Record in Puerto Rico. I don't know. That's a really good question. It's a really good question. But we know after speaking with the tour guide on the tour guide, but the tour, liaison, the the US and our students would be held to the same, if not higher standards for Covid than, than than otherwise. So anything that we're asking the students to do coming into school, whether it's mask wearing or whatever, masks are required on the flight,  you know, students would  also have to, you know, do social. Anything that we're saying we're expecting of them here is going to be met, if not to a higher degree on the trip.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: In the event that one of our students or staff members gets Covid, especially, particularly a staff member, if it's X amount to X amount of students, are we in

[11793-253] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: it's mask wearing or whatever, masks are required on the flight, you know, students would also have to, you know, do social. Anything that we're saying we're expecting of them here is going to be met, if not to a higher degree on the trip.
TEXT> In the event that one of our students or staff members gets Covid, especially, particularly a staff member, if it's X amount to X amount of students, are we in a position? Let's say you land in Puerto Rico and you follow the sudden you have Covid, you know anything can happen. What are  their guarantees? Want to get that person home.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: That's it's covered in their insurance policy.

[11793-270] Sean | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'My name is Sean.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Sean: in and we allowed them to play. The Vermont student could not could not play in winter because they still had restrictions due to Covid in Vermont. But he was allowed to play during the spring. Which opened up the discussion for a formal policy.
TEXT> We when we were asked to  think about how we would go about this, we had some essential questions to ask ourselves of,  how to how do we do this?  We would ask ourselves, who would participate in our programs?  Will there be,  whether will it take away from other school programs, such as if a school were to  offer  soccer and we would take that kid, would we hurt their programs? How would we implement a fee?  Will benefit the our programs as a whole.  Should we limit.  The participants depending on the sport.  Will this increase depth in our programs for especially for women's sports? Because that's been struggling  for a while.  And will this increase the possibility of more tuition students to students? Something that we wanted to avoid. I know that Doug mentioned this  in our discussions is we don't want to be a feeder program to other schools.  Especially Springfield and Windsor, because a lot of those kids are what the issue is, is coming over here and using our programs.  We don't want to take away from other schools.
NEXT> Sean: Like I said before, we want to we don't want to promote it as recruiting because there are strict rules. With the Naia stating that we have to we have

[11793-278] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Doug Belgrave: I think there was that, as Pat talked about that shock of all of a sudden, yeah. Now everything really counts. And there were there were a number of freshmen athletes who we saw play as eighth graders who who were not eligible to participate.
TEXT> You guys clarified it perfectly. I just wanted to kind of one let the folks home at know and us here kind of grasp that it wasn't, hey, all these kids were sitting at home because of Covid. It was really these aren't retained sports players.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah.

[11793-294] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (roll 'Michael Peacham here' [6]; chair  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Sean: door for them and they join our program, we're actually feeding ours. If they decide to go to Stevens. So I think it was slide three, I said it was the possibility of retention. So we're investing in those students for the possibility of retention.
TEXT> Yeah. And I get that. And that to me is still a big if  I think I, I'm not sure if 100%, but I'm pretty sure I heard Mr.. Say that reference that, you know, these kids would be looking to stay in Vermont for high school in. It's no guarantee that they would or they wouldn't. But and we can't we can't say, you know, you have to sign a contract from the Stevens. That's the difficult part because these kids could vary. Any of these kids that you decide to tuition into play could choose to go whether you know anywhere that we have no guarantee that is going to come to Stevens.
NEXT> Doug Belgrave: Yeah. Because of the recruiting rules, the NH, I we can't force them to say, look, you have to pick Stevens if you're going to play in middle school, right?

[11793-299] Doug Belgrave | Athletic Director, Stevens High School (ASR self-intro 'Doug Belgrave' | 2021-08-04
PREV> Sean: same program. It's just a different approach. It's the same. It's the same game. It's the same approach. It's a different approach. But that's the way they chose to feed their programs. We're choosing to feed it through, develop and tackle to do those techniques.
TEXT> And I think with football there is enough of a difference. You know, we're not going to take a soccer player from another school and allow them to play at Claremont Middle School and take away from their soccer program. I do think that there is enough of a difference between tackle football and flag football. And in talking with a lot of. Hokies, and I know they have concerns about kids not really understanding how to tackle,  when they get to the high school level. So I do think that there is there is, there is a difference. Whereas, you know, you might have differences in philosophy and, you know, line ups for soccer.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: But.

[11793-313] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Sean: Because if I say if I say it's a different program. Got it. It could be a loophole and then that's another argument. Got it.
TEXT> Okay. So I would like to make a motion to adopt the policy that's been presented on the caveat that Doug and Sean both meet with the policy committee to better device this into a set in stone procedure. So at this time, I think we adopt the policy as written here.  The the little let these kids in based off this situation. And then we go back to the policy committee and get a formal policy, which is the ultimate goal based off the presentation of the slides.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Except this with the caveat of revision amendment.

[11793-326] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (roll 'Michael Peacham here' [6]; chair  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Steven Horsky: do it tentatively until there's a policy set in stone, if they're more than welcome to come back to us and we can hash it out. But I think we should definitely make priority to get this a policy just completed. So there's no more.
TEXT> Completing it. Just before that were spoken about that it seems like you're if if there's another kid that maybe is not part of that clip, if it, you know, if there's a click, the kids that you know, maybe there's another kid that.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Have we had any other.

[11793-329] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (roll 'Michael Peacham here' [6]; chair  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Sean: sport. So if I have enough numbers, do I not have them come over? Yes. And if I don't have enough numbers, how do I how do I let them know that, hey, there's a couple spots open, so it's kind of a catch 22.
TEXT> That's the sticky wicket I guess, because if I concern to is, is you could have you could have kids. You know, it may not be cutting kids, but maybe you had a kid that's not riding the bench more. I don't know. That's that's where, you know, that's another concern that I've heard from the community, is that if you're taking kids from the other side, that the kids that live here in Claremont are now getting less playtime and riding the adventure more, that's another concern that has come up.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I got Josh in the nick.

[11793-342] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (roll 'Michael Peacham here' [6]; chair  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Sean: Yeah. So we're not going to hit that.
TEXT> It's just a piece to that. If, if your max number for sport is 20 and you've got 18 Claremont kids and you know you've got two that want to come in. Even though it's a cut sport, do we allow those. Those kids to come in.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: That's why we just did not cut only. So it'd be the ones where we have the room.

[11793-366] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1]; runs age | 2021-08-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: in the background while I was home. And it something came across where it said that the CDC and the USDA were getting together to provide meals for students. This is this year. So I'm not sure if you've heard anything is probably relatively new.
TEXT> So I'm not familiar with that one. We already have through the USDA free meals for our students for next year. It's been extended. Yeah, it's been extended current program through the end of the next year.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Maybe they were just talking.

[11825-20] Michael Demers | Public commenter (surname per chair 'Mike DEMARS Demers' [35]; ASR sel | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yes, sir. If you could approach in your name and word, please. Sure. Even though I know who you are.
TEXT> I'm Michael Morris. I just wanted to comment. I don't know if it's rumors or if there's any truth, but  I'm hearing that there's a discussion about bringing masks back to school this year.  And I just wanted to say that I think that's a conversation that should be very carefully undertaken. I think there's a lot of side effects that go along with kids wearing masks all day at school, especially after school activities at sports. We saw some things last year that were pretty scary. And I think that the,  the process of how that gets done should be more public. I think there ought to be a way for folks in the public to be able to weigh in on that and give you some idea of how people feel about it.  Each of us that have kids in the school have seen different effects and side effects of some of this stuff. Personally, I've seen both of my kids.  Some, some things that have happened as a result of, of mask wearing throughout the entire year last year, and  it's not positive stuff.  It's kind of one of my kids is basically checked out from school. He's  he's decided that he's not really interested in being educated by Claremont anymore. And that's unfortunate.
NEXT> Michael Demers: And I'm not going to blame, you know, that on anybody else. But the reality is, is that's one of the factors in his his decision. So I am hoping

[11825-27] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: a more knowledgeable and, I guess responsible, I guess, is the right word position this year knowing what we know. So so thanks for your input. Thank you. Any other citizens comments? Seeing none with closed citizens comments. And let's move to our superintendents report.
TEXT> Sure. So the  the focus of the superintendent's report  I did present the board with a packet, I believe, 6 or 7 days ago, kind of a  where we thought we would be  in terms of  the matrix, the reopening plan, all the.  I also would like to publicly thank Mike Myers for  reaching out to us early and often, and  for his participation in the  in the forums that we had, in the points that that,  that he has  brought up because they're very strong ones and very valid ones. And I  concur with a lot of,  of with that perspective,  all that, all that being said, what we what the bulk of the presentation was, particularly for the new board members. I kind of reviewed everything that we did last year for for people here last year. It was a little bit of a unfortunate memory. Memory lane. Not not a really very nostalgic one, but,  the first slide that I have, if you can go to the, the, the next slide. So,  this just feedback from the summer program and it's a good and I, it's good to see the pictures of the kids both in the classroom and staff. And that's the  very successful summer program. These are mostly the elementary. These are all the elementary program.  In one of the culminating day. They also had field events the very last day.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is from the Thursday before when they went to Sunapee. But I like to preface even the, the, the conversation about, and we will talk about masking and all

[11825-47] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Steve.' [86, 237, 331, 461] | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Steve.
TEXT> I kind of agree with  Mike on this one, and I don't agree with the not allowing spectrum spectators to indoor sports if you're going to be in all the other ones,  available for the outdoor ones, I think we should be able to be in the indoor ones.  Because those children work just as hard as the others. And yeah, we got a bug floating around. We've had a bug floating around for a year and a half. We're talking about a bug that's obviously a strong cold that isn't going to go away anytime soon, apparently. We're seeing that vaccines aren't working. We're seeing,  you know, everything we're trying to do is slowing things down. But at some point, we have to to to maintain normalcy. This I, I,  you know, society, animals and everything else have done it for eons of the year. ONS have heard of unity. And that's the one thing that I think we've we jumped the gun on as the whole world reacted to this.  Because we're still talking low numbers of population worldwide that are deceased or deaths in general. The infection rate is the alarming piece of the puzzle this time around. And I I'm not taking this lightly by any stretch of the imagination. I think the recommendations that we have excluding that piece really is I'm okay with.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: My, what's going to affect where I come down. Ultimately, if things do continue to decline, is I would love to see our vaccination rates go up in Claremont. We're

[11825-98] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: New England and throughout the country. So it was a we're not doing that now. We're not in a place where we think we're going to have to do that in any way, shape or form. So I just want to be clear on that.
TEXT> So just a quick explanation on and the impact on what's called our average daily membership, our ADM. And I think it's October 1st. Yeah, I think we do our  upload for our,  average daily membership and that's our actual headcount. And so that number is what our, aid from the state is based on our adequacy grant. And so if we have each for each of those students who goes into LAX instead of being on our books, that's about $4,300,  probably.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[11825-132] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (called up as 'Romeo' [246], thanke | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: Come up. Hello. Romeo. See you.
TEXT> Our handbook. There weren't a lot of changes. We did mention about the grading,  new adoption. So that is in there.  There's some new behavioral charts. I think the same way of trying to clean it up and making it a little nicer,  and user friendly. One of the things we are doing is moving towards a digital handbook to help with some of the executive functioning skills for our students. We still will print probably 75 copies just to help with some of those that still want sort of that in hand, but we're really trying to work with teaching students, especially through Google Classroom, how to kind of manage their time.  There's a great portal that allows for teacher  interface with parents as well. So that's something that we're going to explore and kind of use. So it'll be a gradual sort of process. But I thought kind of moving in the age in which we are and what we've been doing, especially if we need to pivot in many different ways that it can be very helpful. And I don't know if there's any other questions in regards, but most of it, again, was cleaning it up, taking a look, bringing things back online from the past, you know, months or so.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I can say that I remember the day we approved your hire. I was here back then and I've seen massive improvement in that school in that facility. Thank you

[11825-160] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the superinten | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Student support. What is an Arc coordinator?
TEXT> So the Arc is our academic resource center.  Carla is a program assistant.  So she's sort of in the same vein as,  Paul Silva, who is our V Lacs and Odyssey where,  facilitator,  she provides services to all students.  They can be referred through special education process. They can access her. She's sort of a room where students can go. That's a smaller setting to work quietly.  She was previously  in last year's  handbook, classified under para educators. But,  it didn't really accurately reflect what she does. And that's why I added her in student support..
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Student assistance provider, Doug Pilcher SAP.

[11825-162] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the superinten | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Student assistance provider, Doug Pilcher SAP.
TEXT> Yeah, he is a contracted service that we share with Claremont Middle School. Okay.  And he's been instrumental in counseling our students  following some substance,  infractions. But then  kids are able to access him as they need.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Discipline program coordinator.

[11825-174] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the superinten | 2021-08-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Are the expansion of any of these roles in relation, or are directly related to the dismantling of the Owls program?
TEXT> No,  this is something that, really came out of. There are some  new discipline,  sort of law coming down from the state that actually wasn't stated on July 1st.  And it it dictates that we need to sort of change the way that we do ice and and os out of school suspension.  These three positions were shifted more in response to knowing that it's best for students to be in our school unless their behaviors are, so disruptive that they, they can't attend. It's my philosophy.  And I like to think that I can speak for the other administrators in the building that,  you know, especially in light of the presentation I gave at the last board meeting. We want to do whatever it takes to help students attain that completion and graduation. And I have,  faith that with these positions,  we're going to be able to provide better services to more students, and we'll be able to move toward that goal.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And in discussions with, with. The high school administration looking at what we had for other staffing, what we had for attrition. But we have with the conversion in the

[11825-184] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: A position that I brought up.
TEXT> That's right. So and and I all I can do is commend and wish I had her back in the day. But.  Karen. Karen Girardi knows what kids are thinking before they do it. Okay. And and that's what we're looking to have is more people in the trenches getting to know the kids, relationship building,  turning them around before they make poor decisions with the administration right there to do that and  and build those relationships, get kids more involved in activities, sports connected to the school. And  again, that's the piece.
NEXT> Unidentified: That.

[11825-189] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: I've said, the counter narrative of, of, you know, the expenses and what it costs. When I get on a Concord and I'm testifying that, we need more aid. I want to make sure that we're not wasting money as as he suggests we are.
TEXT> And so I couldn't agree more. And that's why even in the first summer, you know, when we had all that transition, every time we have an opening, every time we lose someone to attrition, we review it. We look at, you know, what is that position?  What does that look like? Unfortunately, we're in a position doing that now with a staffing shortage in the community. We'll, we'll we'll make it work. I mean, in the state, in the region.  So we're always looking at doing that. We did that the first summer where we flipped three positions out of the central office and put them right in the middle school classroom positions. We didn't have a  just and that was not that long ago. For eight years, you didn't have a full complement of core elective classes, science and social studies. Kids couldn't take a full year in the middle school. Can't be understated. That's reinstated. Everything that we do in the strategic plan that we've adopted over the last two years has student achievement and student success in it as the driver. So you will not see in all of those positions were there last year. There's no new extra positions there.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There's a repurposing of another talent. And if we didn't have the talent in individual and Mr. Bailey who could pull that off, we wouldn't have gone there. You know,

[11825-211] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the superinten | 2021-08-18
PREV> Nicholas Stone: of those study halls as underclassmen because there was no other classes offered. So I know it's kind of a unique situation, but, you know, I don't I don't want to force him to go to Villach because there's not a class being offered either.
TEXT> Absolutely.  From what I understand, and I, you know, coming on last year and you asked last year being a really wonky year,  the  move toward not having underclassmen study. Also something that had happened that kind of started to be phased out. We are. Because we have,  this block built into our day, each day where one day a week is advisory,  where students get together with what would amount to be a homeroom teacher.  There's they do activities and relationship building, sort of,  as another measure toward wanting to keep students in school. And building those relationships to keep students in school the other four days,  under sort of the the concept of flex,  students, basically, it's a study hall where students can go where they need to go for their area of greatest need academically. So far  it has not created,  scheduling obstacles to not have that study hall.  If we find that that is an issue, then  we'll reassess with the staff that we have and find a solution for that. But being very close to the start of school and having most of our students schedules finalized. I don't foresee that being a concern this year,  but certainly if it were to come up, we'd address it. So that we weren't just kind of leaving students hanging. Okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I would interpret that if I were there. There's no intentional study halls. Yeah. And there may be study halls. I mean, you can't if a kid drops a class,

[11825-231] Mary Ellen Janeiro | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6, newly hired (superintendent: 'Doctor  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: plan and meeting with staff and supporting teaching and learning and interventions for students and alternative program experience. And she's a she's a perfect fit for the community and the time. And without any further into do I do. I'd like to introduce doctor general.
TEXT> Thank you. I'll be brief. It's  warm in here. And  we've been looking at Covid stuff, longer than probably anyone wants to revisit that. But, thank you so much for,  what's been a really warm welcome to for six. I'm, I'm  honored to be here and excited to roll up my sleeves and get into the very thick of the curriculum instruction work ahead. I have worked in 30 years  over my career in Maine, New Hampshire and Massachusetts  in various roles and at heart always an English teacher  in my my dearest passion in the classroom with the kids. I am very much.  Looking forward to the first 100 days. That sweet spot where you get to know. The town, the staff, and most importantly, the kids. And so as part of my entry plan that  I've discussed with Mike, I'm very much going to be out and about.  People will see my face probably more than they want to, but I hope that they will come to smile and and feel comfortable in sharing with me,  their classrooms and their experience and and the journey.
NEXT> Mary Ellen Janeiro: And I look forward to hearing from parents as well as they as I get going. Just because I think it's really important for me to have this deep understanding,

[11825-233] Mary Ellen Janeiro | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6, newly hired (superintendent: 'Doctor  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Mary Ellen Janeiro: very large urban school districts. I've worked in very affluent suburban districts. I've seen it all. And, almost all there is to say, I suppose there's always something new that that we all just shake our heads that sometimes. But I I've seen a lot.
TEXT> And I think I have always had this wavering belief in the ability of all students. And that's a passion that I think is contagious when we are always student first at the forefront.  We're always right for improving any of our practices and certainly moving forward. So, I  will I will end there. I'm happy to feel questions and get to to know people as we as we travel along, but certainly,  looking forward to getting to know the community as quickly as I possibly can. And, and just really sort of helping to, to make this a  more data informed.  In order to improve instruction. I guess that's it. The highlight. I'll just say the highlight of the highlight of some of the work that I've done.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: What you're holding back, you're you're the real deal. So she's she's, I'll put some of the stuff out there. She's been an executive director of the Robert Frost Society.

[11825-235] Mary Ellen Janeiro | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6, newly hired (superintendent: 'Doctor  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: director of the Robert Frost Society. She has rubbed elbows with, like, Nobel laureates like, it worked in Lawrence Barnstable community matches, developed programs, written publicity. Like it just goes on and on. We're we're excited. I mean, I'll I'll fill in the blank sheet.
TEXT> Yeah. No. And I, I think I think one of the, the things that I'm, I'm most proud of are  working with challenged school districts.  I was in Lawrence for ten years and helped to create a high school there.  Out of a the larger 3000 student comprehensive school, we,  narrowed it down to two small schools of 500 each. Not so small, but smaller, a little bit more manageable to get our arms around. And, as at that point my role was, was head of the English department, and we took,  what was less than a 50% pass rate in a school system that had lost its accreditation, that was quickly running towards receivership. Our new high school,  really became a model  for success. And within two years, our pass rate went from less than 50% to 90% the second year and 92% the third year.  We were competing successfully with the suburban schools around us, giving our kids an opportunity to succeed at the same rate as their peers in some of the, the wealthier,  towns. And so that's something I'm very proud of.
NEXT> Mary Ellen Janeiro: But even more so than that, the kids took to heart the message that your duty is to to give back. And to that end, many of those students became

[11825-236] Mary Ellen Janeiro | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6, newly hired (superintendent: 'Doctor  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Mary Ellen Janeiro: year and 92% the third year. We were competing successfully with the suburban schools around us, giving our kids an opportunity to succeed at the same rate as their peers in some of the, the wealthier, towns. And so that's something I'm very proud of.
TEXT> But  even more so than that, the kids took to heart the message that your duty is to to give back. And to that end, many of those students became my colleagues. They became social workers who I networked with in the city. They became school board members and town council members and the director of the DPW,  just really went on to, to be successful active citizens  and to  essentially that's what we we want for all of our children that they are curious, lifelong learners, that they're successful and that they contribute to the society. So,  that's that's really the heart of why we're all here. So I look forward to to getting down to some serious business.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Welcome.

[11825-286] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Steve.' [86, 237, 331, 461] | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Still talking about sports. We got it.
TEXT> And then on the sports piece, spectators, I think they should be allowed even in, in this situation.  And I think that the, the non visitors in the school when all the kids are here is one thing. But these kids, I mean, if you take the spectator away, the chances are the kid that's probably getting watched was probably around that spectator more than likely. And therefore you're basically, you know, hey parents, you can't come, but you've already you're if your child is infected or not at that point, it's just it's a moot point.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: If you.

[11825-336] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: So you would say that these this would not apply with volleyball because it's not a large gathering.
TEXT> I wouldn't say that I like the happy medium consensus. I don't want to thwart people from coming out. I don't want to give a mixed message. I, I, I mean, I'm, I like Rob that we would just take we would just take the moderate and put it. Yeah. Take that exact one like most of the other ones are straight across with very little variation. I don't see this playing out again over. And let's talk about the time periods, right. We saw what just changed in six days. We know that we're going to gain two months plus with this sport season before we're even thinking of another. We have plenty of meetings before that if we need to pivot. I'm  I'm  not concerned. I saw what they did. They did that other meeting in the spike okay. When they had parents in there.  For for the students last game and a tribute. Then we pulled it off. I'm I'm not I'm not worried about this in the short term. In the fall, indoors and indoors. Only outside. Just like the concert. I'm. I'm with you. I again, this is for the whole community. That's why I like the.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay good nick and then drop.

[11825-342] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (answers 'No' when Nicholas Stone is cal | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's why I've been talking about vaccination rates out there long.
TEXT> That's why like I think personally,  a better way to do the I think that the matrix is good, but I think that the  top should be rather,  Claremont percentage that has cases rather than solving county because, you know, we get an outbreak in Newport and then all of a sudden our kids mess up for their education.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I want to just kind of bring us back. So what do we all we're really discussing is right now is whether we're trying to decide about masks indoors.

[11825-407] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (answers 'No' when Nicholas Stone is cal | 2021-08-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: But I don't think that's something we can easily access. And so if, if, if the administration's I just think we need a tool that the administration can use easily with the data that they can access without having to do calculations. And
TEXT> But I think the calculations are already done, because when you do the 5% of Claremont, you're going to have that threshold of under 650 cases, roughly speaking, because we have I think the most recent census was 2019, which was 12,977, which 5% of that would be roughly 650. So use that 650 benchmark for Claremont cases. So if you have above that, then that puts you in that moderate threshold. If you're under that puts you in the minimal that way it's more, like I said, tailored to Claremont. That way we don't have to mask our students up because outbreak in, you know, Unity or Newport. And we kind of get more of a, you know, control over ourselves rather than the entire county.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So. The only thing I'm going to say and I didn't, you know, I kind of did the work and the culling for you, but I can get you

[11825-430] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Josh.' [229]; answers 'Yes' | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Moving down the line. So it's Josh next.
TEXT> The issue that is is we also have to be concerned about kids who come in from unity, kids who come in from Goshen, or kids who are like coming in from other towns to go to school in Claremont. We do not just have Claremont resident students at all times, so we have to be concerned and staff. Exactly. We have to be concerned about the greater Claremont area.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: I think that using solely cases is a tough metric to use. For example, with the vaccine, is we know that people who do test positive that have had the

[11825-439] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (answers 'No' when Nicholas Stone is cal | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: I don't think it really matters really. I think as far as how we do it. But I just think if we're looking for, sort of the least restrictive environment, I would say, I think the county gives us that, not the not the city.
TEXT> It might be harder, but I think it is going to lead to a better, system for our kids, you know, have them back in school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I agree with everything you said, but I just think that the easiest way to get to what you want to do is go with the county, not the city.

[11825-466] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (answers 'No' when Nicholas Stone is cal | 2021-08-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: it think it's going to be beneficial because it's just so specific to our community or because you believe that it will actually because it reflects our community more specifically, or because you feel it will enable us to have the least amount of restrictions.
TEXT> I think it's a little bit of both. I think that being that specific allows you to make a lot more decisions tailored to strictly Claremont. My big worry is if, like I said earlier and I've said a couple of times is, you know, hospital and, you know, Newport or Unity, they have an outbreak. Boom. You're stuck to doing substantial because of something that's outside of the Claremont School System. And then we're not I don't say punish because we're not. But then we put certain required,  mandates on the kids learning to do masks and stuff like that, where we're kind of being affected by something that doesn't directly affect us.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So you're comfortable with us going back at substantial of being held to a substantial, label longer?

[11825-489] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: Indoor.
TEXT> Organization in in the 30 mile radius. Okay. That's  I get to be that guy. Right. So we are already having a tough time getting teachers staffing all the we don't want to be the outlier. Bucking the trend right now where everyone the community among superintendents, principals and everyone right now in doing this  in also I think we we maybe we want to study that further, bring other proposals forward or get it a little bit more. I don't I don't see a case in which it doesn't perpetuates perpetuate us staying in substantial, as people have suggested. And I, I think ultimately the effect and the impact it particularly what I, as I understood,  what  the the impact no, no one's going to want to play us. No one's going to want to visit us. No one's going to want to. I mean,  it's that that that's what I'm concerned for, the development of our kids, never mind our staff, the transient nature.  You know, the historical stuff. We have people coming from other states and things like that. If the over, it's somewhat fallacious to think that that we're going to we're going to control all the and this is, this is how I break it down.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is what's scary for me, is it doesn't matter if you have a vaccinated nasal pharynx or an unvaccinated nasal pharynx, any person can carry. Right. So given that

[11825-559] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: And that way it's easily defended because they're the ones that.
TEXT> Are in reimbursable. Right. It's our student population. We're not just some type of social blanket. Right.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But I.

[11825-561] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: But I.
TEXT> Talking skeptically. It's not what I believe, but I can't see that not being directly for the students and staff we serve integral to the continuation of our primary ways of educating kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But I think Josh's point, sort of tightens it up to make it even more of a, of a shoe. And I think if, if, if it was that specific

[11825-570] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Yes' when Heather Whitney is c | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: But.
TEXT> I think we have to be very careful about specifically targeting students.  I kind of feel a little uncomfortable with that, and I would try to really target the parents. I think we just have to be careful about, you know, putting a point of view in front of students and incentivizing students to pressure, essentially pressure their parents to sign the to sign on the dotted line to get them the vaccine. Do I do I not want them to get vaccinated? And of course, I want them to get vaccinated. But I just have a little unease with that. And personally,  what I would like to see more than anything is, is as much information and as much positive,  media and availability that we could expose  families and parents and encourage them to get the vaccine, because most likely place of transmission is going to be in the home and not at school, even without the masks. And I'm not saying we don't offer it, but incentivizing children makes me uncomfortable. And from a real just from a strictly Machiavellian kind of perception, a point of view, it's so important that we get the adults vaccinated in the community, because everything is going to be predicated on community spread, even if we don't have clusters in the school, if we have issues in the community, that's when the kids are going to be masked, messed up.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And I want to do everything that we can to limit the disruption of learning in schools and and limit the disruption of, of just being normal in school. And

[11825-670] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that we we know as the enrollment has gone down to your earlier points and things like that, I think there are at least three other factors that are larger drivers than than compensating in a cost effective way to to squeak out more sections.
TEXT> Of the biggest ones, frankly, are  failure rates in other times. So every time a kid fails a a class and has to take it again, or has to take a year long portion of a class, that should only take half a year in this semester rise.  Block schedule. If there's a if there's a chewing up of the FT-SE related to outcomes, that's a better way to look because we're also looking to maximize the kids opportunities to everyone's point so that you're not in a study hall, you're in an academic class, the largest.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I understand all of that, but my point is that we've taken a 0.3, turned it into full time with benefits. That's what happened.

[11862-48] Ronnie | Lead nurse, Claremont School District (self-identified as lead nurse [ | 2021-09-01
PREV> Ronnie: on sports teams. Same thing for like in the winter for for basketball. You know, that way we know what we're we can kind of get ahead of the curve a little bit and not wait for somebody to tell us that they've tested positive.
TEXT> Another place that we're looking forward are in our,  or in our classrooms, like our K-2 classrooms with our special needs children who  who can't verbally tell us what's going on. For example, last year I unfortunately had to send a fair amount of them home.  And they couldn't be tested or, or at the time, mom or dad didn't want to test them for the third time because they've shown symptoms. And so this the whole point is to keep the students in school.  So they've contracted with, with four different companies.  Convenient. MD.  Unh. There's another company who I apologize off the top of my head. I don't remember the name, but they're doing a test that we wouldn't be interested in because they're just doing,  one test for everybody. So it's it would lead to more testing for us. And then,  there's one other one, and I, I apologize.  But convenient MD is, is the one that got back to us, and we have a phone call with them tomorrow at 11.  It does require parental  consent and it would be a blanket consent. So if somebody signed the consent for tomorrow for their child, it would be through the whole school year unless they they changed their minds and they take care of everything.
NEXT> Ronnie: So essentially what would happen is we would be responsible, they would drop the test to us. And so let's just say the football players, we'd line them up, we'd

[11862-53] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (Ronnie refers to 'the pooling that Heat | 2021-09-01
PREV> Ronnie: they could come down, you know, if we decide not to, let's say do the do the sports teams and let's just say we do have a cluster, an outbreak, and we want to go ahead and test. We do have that the ability. So.
TEXT> Can I speak on this. So I, I actually heard about this today and I touched I reached out to Mike about it that I don't know if anybody else saw this in the paper, but Lebanon is doing this throughout their whole school system. And, what they're going to attempt to do is they're going to test every classroom that sounds like once a week, and they're going to do pulled PCR testing, which basically they dump every class into one bag, send them all off. If there's any positive in that one bag, then they come back and they retest. The kids identify if they're which child tests positive, and then be able to parse out who needs to quarantine and what needs to happen.
NEXT> Ronnie: So my only concern about the pool testing is that especially in our elementary schools, is that now that means two tests. So so that's my concern with the pool

[11862-76] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair's 'Steve' [117], [211], [604] pre | 2021-09-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> This just brings back mentally to me when we were looking at doing a life's policy. Once upon a time, we had this thing about worrying about children,  having their feelings hurt or being picked on because they popped with lice. Essentially, what we're doing here is another mass testing procedure where child's now got Covid, he's got the bug, and we had lots of intense debate when we did the the lice policy adjustment. And when I look at the numbers and  that's the thing that keep that keeps really sticking to me is we're spending a lot of time on something that's less than a percent of the population. I understand we have to be safe. I think what we need to do is, is hone in on these matrix. But I think when it comes to testing, I think that that is I think it's outside of the school scope, to be quite honest. I think we do have the we have the right to know if somebody's gotten it for the greater masses of people. But I think we're I think we're treading, in my opinion, I think we're treading in things that are outside the scope of a school.  You know, we have to protect the majority of the students. But at the same time, we're talking about 1% in the whole grand scheme of things.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So I think that we just I don't know where to go with it because it's such a touchy subject right now. But when I look at the numbers, you

[11862-113] Ronnie | Lead nurse, Claremont School District (self-identified as lead nurse [ | 2021-09-01
PREV> Steven Horsky: how that alleviates that student from continuing to spread. Because if he does pop hot, in this case, he's been in the classroom 4 or 5 hours more with that whole class. Thus, when it creates more, more likely to spread than the current policy.
TEXT> Not necessarily. It depends on the child. It depends on their immune system, it depends on social distancing. And we're also masking at this point right now. So and to your  the and I'll, I'll make sure all of you have a copy that you can read. But the, the the screening algorithm is  you know, it says that we would it would be home. They'd be home for the ten days. We'd exclude them, have them get tested, and then they would have to be home until they test negative. If they test positive, it's ten days. Whereas and but the nice thing about this new algorithm, and I'm getting off topic, is that the children no longer have to be home for 20 days. So it's it's ten days regardless.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I'm going to remind everyone that all we're doing here is simply listening and investigating. We're not. So I don't know if we need to if we're at the

[11862-130] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Principal Barry' [11];  | 2021-09-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: To set this up.
TEXT> High school messenger has some money. By doing a little bit of a looser kind of printing for them. So I just wanted you to be able to see that. So the,  the school profile,   which we just had updated, which we we do update this time of year once the school counselors come back for the five days prior to the start of school,  we updated it to show the revised grading scale with the new letter grades,  what their weights are for the 4.0 versus the 5.0. And we've also updated it to show our post-grad plans for our recent graduates, class of 2021. How that breaks down. You also see the diploma breakdown and where our kids went for schools. And we did have a very small graduating class,  but this is the highest percentage since I've been principal,  where we've had 72% of two and four year  schools students going off to 2 or 4 year colleges. So, having spoken with Charlie Gessner about the transition from  the D grading system to this new one,  not having been around for the previous transition into into competency based grading. Charlie's recommendation was to do what we did back then, which was to simply let,  the report cards, the transcripts show both grades. So as students move on out.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Our seniors will have three years of degrading and they'll have one year of the A, B, C scale. This is what colleges look at. And they see as far

[11862-132] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Principal Barry' [11];  | 2021-09-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: power school. So parents, what that looks like is on the progress report. It's kind of short and sweet on the report cards. Parents will see both to they'll see the learning target grades. They'll see how students are doing on all the learning targets.
TEXT> But they'll also see the A, B, C and what the the numerical grade is for their students. And we had a great turnout at last night's  Welcome Back night. About 200  masked people. It was it was a wonderful evening. Mike was there. The food was from Abby. Group was wonderful. But when we talked about I don't know if you were there, Mary Ellen, when the subject of the grade change came up, I think there was almost it came really close to a standing ovation by the parents. There was a breakout  of a lot of  happy parents when we talked about the switchover. So I'm hoping that answers the question. Or I didn't know if you still had any concerns about the transition.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so they won't really have a numerical grade until not a true numerical grade until the W, until.

[11862-170] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair's 'Steve' [117], [211], [604] pre | 2021-09-01
PREV> Unidentified: Okay, okay.
TEXT> I guess the bigger thing that I, I would I think I would like to add to minimal,  as far as the visitors go, being required to wear masks at all times. And the reason I'm going to I have an issue with this is being a parent. We're around the children for the other several hours a day, hopefully in a lot of cases, and that is probably the most likely area where the kiddos going to get sick because of the power outside contact. So I would like to I would like to get rid of the the visitor masking if we're in the minimal box or the green box. And I think at moderate, I think at that point it should be a recommended because I think most of the adults are able to make the decision to get the vaccine at that point. And I think that's really where the visitor card comes into play. That's just my suggestion.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Josh, I'm going to see if somebody else has a comment first. Heather.

[11862-204] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Rob.' [343]; Horsky: 'I respect | 2021-09-01
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: Are you the parent or guardian? No. Okay, well, then you wear a mask, but you don't. And it just doesn't make sense. We're asking people to jump through hoops that are just benign at this point. Just wear a mask for a few minutes.
TEXT> That's all we're asking for. Let's protect the children that can't get vaccinated. They can't wear the mask or are  going to wear the masks only under certain days. It just I just don't get why we keep on this circular path.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Josh.

[11862-206] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Josh.' [140], [294]; 'Thanks, J | 2021-09-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Josh.
TEXT> Dance off of that. Like we went back to school today and it was normal. The only thing that was different from not last year, the previous year was the mask. The kids don't complain about masks. They don't. It's. Again bare minimum.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: Again, I think it's case by case where you're at colleges that are doing a mentor mask mandate for the first two weeks, people are back and then they're going

[11862-214] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; addressed as 'Frank' [584]; ca | 2021-09-01
PREV> Nicholas Stone: whatever they, they, they choose. I just think that going based off, different parameters, that kind of allows more wiggle room because it seems like it's just kind of like Rob is saying, it's just I never, never ending cycle of the same stuff happening.
TEXT> And their recommendations out there from the American Pediatrics Association, from the CDC, from the state of New Hampshire, from the United States government, all the superintendents and the state. And that's what that's what this is. So I don't feel that I'm in a position, the only person that I feel that would, could even offer an opinion on the medical wisdom of this would be our two practitioners that we have, Heather and Mike patron, who are both medical practitioners, on their expertise on this. I'm not going to say that I know better than the American Pediatrics Association and what's good for kids. I'm not going to do that because I know I'm not. So I don't mean to jump on you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Like that. That's fine.

[11862-224] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Principal Barry' [11];  | 2021-09-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: Mom and grandma. You put us in a position then where we have to police, where we have to decide where we have to say you. Yes. You know, and that creates friction, it creates discord, it creates argumentation, and it turns us into police.
TEXT> And when it's one size fits all and we say, this is what we're asking of all of you during these times, because of this matrix, there aren't complaints, our kids aren't complaining, our families aren't complaining. And we had a lovely evening last night. People felt safe.  And we did a variety of things in a variety of spaces, but we don't want to pit administrators against each other in your school. This in this school here. And we don't want to pit adults coming into our building against each other and and asking us to justify why you and not you. It puts us in a really bad position. And I don't know how we do that  and and continue to build that trust and relationship with parents. So I just would like you to consider it from that perspective.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I'm going to say right now that that I am not going to support the last amendment to this, if it were to vote. Ray. No, I'm not going

[11862-229] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair's 'Steve' [117], [211], [604] pre | 2021-09-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> The whole point is, is that people die from other things too. At some point, we have to start moving towards normal. We're looking at doing it at the very minimal levels we're talking about. Where there is less than the matrix is really pounding us on. We're not talking about getting rid of mass completely. I think we're doing something that's very amicable. I know that if I was to go into a conference, I can sit here with administrators, I can sit here with you guys right now with no mask, no problem. So what's the difference if I come in for a student conference? Because the way we have this limited, it's not okay. But we're okay sitting in this room right now. So are we going to just mandate at some point or make it a policy or a direction that we're going to go continually, that the kids are just going to wear masks all the time? Because that's what I'm hearing. I'm hearing that we need to do this in, in definitely until we've got Covid completely under control. But that doesn't sound like that's what's happening. I think what we've tried to do it based off what the matrix is presenting. The amendment of it, I think is very reasonable because we're trying to control it. That's where we're at.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I don't.

[11862-232] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Josh.' [140], [294]; 'Thanks, J | 2021-09-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm, I'm sorry. We're going to we're going to wrap this up with the board because I'm going to take questions. Then we're going to vote on the motion as it is. So Josh, Nick, Rob, Heather. And then we're going to vote.
TEXT> The bottom line is the majority of children school age cannot be vaccinated. We're probably all vaccinated. And if we're not, oh well, but the kids don't have a choice right now. They cannot get vaccinated. College colleges, they're adults here. We're all adults. The kids don't have a choice.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Who is next?

[11862-236] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Rob.' [343]; Horsky: 'I respect | 2021-09-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Rob.
TEXT> The correlation to the flu is a straw man argument. At its peak in 2016 2017, the flu killed 60,000 people for a season. Covid has been around for more than 18 months and has killed ten times that amount. And we're not talking about many variations of the flu. We're talking about one strain killed over 600,000 people in the United States, and now a stronger strain is coming through. If the adults don't like what we're putting in place for the children, the adults are the only one that can fix this. Wear the mask, get vaccinated, and we stop talking about these stupid matrixes. It's not until we get Covid under control it's to wear, at least in minimal. We're saying if you want to get back to normal, get back to normal by taking the steps necessary. The waxing poetic about it's just this. It's just that you can politicize it all at once. It won't care. It's going to kill you anyway. So if you don't want us to talk about the matrixes anymore, if you don't want children wearing masks, the adults have to step up and be adults and do a things so that we can get back to being normal.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Either. Were you going to, Mike? Were you going to say something?

[11862-275] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Were you going to, Mike?' [347] | 2021-09-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: decisions. And as a as a group of folks who work very, very hard to develop relationships with families, you're potentially, without intending to putting us in a situation of a very adversarial position with families. So the clarity in this matrix helps your administrators.
TEXT> I mean, my my thought was I go back to my kid being in elementary school at Disney and my kid having a really hard time adjusting and crying and being, you know, very tearful in class. And I had to go comfort him, calm him down. He was able to stay in school. If I at this point was not able to go do that for him, I would be an angry parent and I would be at that door with my mask on. But wanting to go be able to help my child.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That's so.

[11886-44] Michael Demers | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified [55]; addressed as 'Mr. Dahm | 2021-09-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do we have any discussion on the minutes or any corrections or changes? No. Everybody voting to approve the minutes I, I. Now we have time set aside for citizens comments. Is there any citizens available to make comments?
TEXT> Good evening. Michael Demers, Ward three.  So I'd like to take a quick second.  I've been looking at some of the online materials from a website that's widely used, controversially, around curriculum  fish tank learning. And,  I just wanted to say that, you know, there's there's been a fair amount of noise around the state with  critical race theory and whether or not our students from the kindergarten all the way up are being,  you know, taught how to think versus what to think. And I just want to go on record.  Without getting into the weeds on that, that I think that any significant changes in curriculum,  particularly as it applies to the application of critical race theory, should be very public. When I see something on the agenda, as I did today,  curriculum update that concerns me, I don't know if that is something very simple and maybe shouldn't be of concern, but if that potentially is a more  profound change and potentially brings some of that type of thinking into the schools, I think that's worthy of  a much more public announcement.
NEXT> Michael Demers: The opportunity for the public to weigh in on that, hear from as many people as possible about how they feel about that. So I don't know if that's the

[11886-48] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that I'll talk about, I'll, I'll talk about that as well. All right. So the first, the first page, is the governor today. So he, he did talk about, I actually couldn't parse out all of that, but we will have a summary of it.
TEXT> And basically just talking about  that, it's not looking good in terms of he he pushed  vaccination similar to  the position of the administrative team and the board.  But also,  you know, there were also it was all I don't want to paraphrase it, but it was somewhat political and things like that. And, and,  and what we're looking to do  and I just want to say this unequivocally and I think I speak for the board, but I'll certainly speak for the administrative team. Our goal this year and our mission this year, like every year, is to educate all of our students as long as possible in the way they were meant to be face to face in there. That was our goal all of last year. It was a trying year. We have some challenges coming up  this year as well as we've seen things come and go. I do think it's in the positive  trend, what we have been trying to do over the weeks, and we've been talking to other superintendents, and I'll show you a few ways that we have to track the data to make it clearer for folks. Our friends in Fall Mountain had a nice template that we ran with and modified. We were hoping to make that an saw six template  last night.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: In unity. They have another matrix, a little bit of a tweak that we're working on as well for them. So they'll have a separate one. And in Claremont we'll

[11886-50] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I'm going left to right. Actually, they started before us, so I left their stuff in there. Okay. Literally, I did take it right from Laurie and we, you know, in our discussion so you can see the Sullivan County and the state for them.
TEXT> They had Chester County in there as well. If you look at Fall Mountains, you can see the differences. What I thought was most pertinent to us is, as you see, the the columns left to right, you see Claremont. I have Claremont as a percentage of Sullivan County, a unity  Newport, Goshen and the county Sullivan County totals. The reason that's that way is we we receive students  from Goshen, Newport and Unity back and forth. There are neighbors and,  you know, with the tech center and also tuition students from Goshen. And we wanted to keep an eye on those kids as well as they come and go. And we wanted the public to be informed as best we could,  you know, without being  violative of people's personal rights and freedoms. If you look at the vaccination rates, you're going to see,  you know,  you're going to see Sullivan County as a whole again, this is updated every day. All of this is on  the links in the Covid dashboard. You can see it's all transparent. Most of the districts in the state adopted a similar way, shape and form for uniformity across the state. And right now Sullivan County has spiked. It's it's it's going to go up and down like as it has last year.  But and I can talk about that, but it is up to the day.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's usually about a day behind. They just put in the stuff right than our before I got here and I didn't have time to put it the new stuff.

[11886-58] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to start the sampling of the as a driver for discussion on Monday. But they they talk about the reasons and rationale why, which I'll go through the whole presentation in just a minute from before, and I'll try to be relatively painless with that.
TEXT> But all of this is going to be on the website  right after this.  And it'll be out there for you as well. We hope to have the survey out probably tomorrow, and we may even have feedback in the just a few questions from our conversation tonight. But the first question is,  just to to  for feedback and basically to find out, we wanted to talk about the reasons why we're pursuing this and then the the relationships of those topics to parents and guardians and the school community. So the first is,  we're looking to have  one of the reasons for smaller class size. How important is it for you? Second reason is to improve literacy and numeracy for all grade levels through various strategies and interventions. Where is that in your degree of importance? And that's how the questions go.  We're also looking for all students at each grade level, what it would be like,  to be more flexible. And then our restructuring is for to have  advanced academies and enrichment opportunities, all of those types of things. These are this is a sample though as we're opening up. This is a sample of  of the questions. And there will be more as well all of these things. Next slide please.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Next I'm sorry Jeff. Thanks. And all of these are in line with the strategic plan adopted. Talking about time on learning student achievement and individualizing, same thing that we've

[11886-59] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: have advanced academies and enrichment opportunities, all of those types of things. These are this is a sample though as we're opening up. This is a sample of of the questions. And there will be more as well all of these things. Next slide please.
TEXT> Next I'm sorry Jeff. Thanks. And all of these are in line with the strategic plan adopted.  Talking about time on learning student achievement and individualizing,  same thing  that we've been working on the last couple of years. But a continuation of that  and in particular, next slide,  looking at time on learning, this is the biggest advantage for both the restructuring and the schedule and the targeted  in the urgency of those two things together to best serve our students. All right.  These were this is a recap. If you go to the next slide. These were the benefits of elementary restructuring that we talked about at the forum. And we talk about now basically  early literacy and numeracy gains stability and control of size because of wow due to  fluctuation.  In class sizes at different schools,  stronger and consistent targeted curriculum, universal and all day pre-K for students h h h for this is important. Another year of school we were talking about this way before it got political.  In recent years we're doing this is the key to it. Now,  at the end of this, we have a lot of the literature that that tells you that as well, that you can review,  unique programing and experiential curriculum opportunities for an entire grade. So the whole second grade can go out and do things at a certain place.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The whole, also the reduction of conflicts when you have a less of an age gap between students and also a reallocation of of teachers for their specialties. Right. So,

[11886-61] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: busses? These are the actual questions that came up previously. And some of them were echoed even in the first round over the summer. What about too many transitions? Okay, now we have a five total and not as three before where they're going between.
TEXT> And what we're talking about is each student going to each school for a grade. The advantage of the advantage for us is that you build a cohort so the kids you bond through those years, you have like targeted like experiences. There's a lot of consistency and strength of planning and focus in all of that.  In that by the time you get to middle school, you know everyone and you're that much ahead of the game. It's also something that happened before in Claremont in a couple of other configurations that people have told me about. We'll get into the history of that. How and why as well. Again, none of this per se is is budget driven. It's not a reduction method, but it's a concentration of resources for targeted gains,  staff reassignments and process and procedures. How would that go around? What's, you know, how does that work and will be very clear about that? Doing that obviously with the  bargaining unit agreements and things like that. How will toes be structured these these came up. They came up right away. What will the how will the funds gained in one school for that neighborhood school. How will they be used reallocated?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Again, the loss of the neighborhood school and the just the concern that it is a budget related and it's not. It never was, but we just feel like it's

[11886-65] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: many places are still doing this is what we had last year. How we set it up. Next slide the bell schedule from before Covid and Stevens next slide is a master schedule that was just worked with the scheduling committee at the middle school.
TEXT> This is their whole proposal. If we go through a little bit rapidly. Mr. Small, I won't bore you with this, but it's actually, they did such a great they did a really great job from the bottom up with all the teachers, all the things. I love their layout. It's a classic way to go through  the process with advisory class times and really the benefits for the students as the driver for all every part of this,  they had morning advisory, ending advisory. They they looked at their project based learning. They put in different types of rotations. They  interviewed kids, they interviewed staff. They did it the right way. And this is what they came up with. And we just keep going through. You can look at this to your heart's content at home. It's going to be on the the website.  If you keep going, Mr. Small, until you get to the sixth grade, you'll see the saw blocks very well identified. We had a master schedule, six seventh grade. If you just keep going quickly just to show the folks at home they can look at this themselves. It will be posted eighth grade schedules. The last slide there, what we were looking at and kind of where we left off. And it's not any it's not rocket sciences. The middle school has a sixth grade schedule now with 55 minute classes or about an hour.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's similar to the contract language. You have to have prep times. You have to meet the spirit of the collective bargaining agreement and all these other things. But basically

[11886-68] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: have at the tech. Maybe middle school access, more ninth grade access to the rich opportunities here at the tech and things like that. We have our work cut out for us with that as well, but we will be presenting that to the board.
TEXT> Next slide. You can see the rotation, all that lovely stuff. And then that's kind of the  the one slide has the starting point for CMS Stevens, the tech in Newport as well for all our kids that go there and their kids who come to us. So we've been busy. All right. So that's that's the Newport High School schedule I even put in there too because that's that's something that we have to take into consideration. And  that's all I have for you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. Thank you. So I consider your opening of schools as well.

[11886-71] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: excited about that. But we still have a few more hires and where those are in process, we don't have any new appointments to to share with you, but we we expect to have those in the October meeting as well by then in process.
TEXT> But it's been a it's been a very positive opening. You know people a lot of energy. It's great to see kids back. It's great to it's a lot of work okay. We we forget to what, what what a  you know, the energy and dealing with all the kids. It's been a lot of work, but it's we've had a lot of great,  great, great feedback from parents and from everyone. So so in positive. Yeah.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Great. Thank you.

[11886-93] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: behind in to late on that. So that's my other question was to clarify. We had initially and I think we had initially talked about if we're going to restructure, we talked about for 2223. Yeah. Now it's looking like we're pushing that to 2324.
TEXT> Not necessarily know, but what what we don't want to do. We want to make sure that we thoroughly vet it. No, we it's it's full steam ahead to see what we can do and how we can do it. What I want to say publicly, though, that's really important that you want to with educational change, you need to have the engagement and the enlistment of all stakeholders. There's all kinds of,  benefits for students, but there's also, you know, historical things,  neighborhood schools and all those types of things. And then there's, frankly, hard business decisions. I know when I've had these discussions and things like.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That, my neighborhood school is not a karate dojo. So yeah. Yeah. You know.

[11886-95] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: That, my neighborhood school is not a karate dojo. So yeah. Yeah. You know.
TEXT> Yeah. So but in so I guess that's the that's kind of the tough talk about what we do, how we do it. And if we do it through the lens of more academic outcomes and achievement and kind of prosperity for the students that we serve and the families that we serve, that has to be the driver all the way through. But we have to be practical as well. And it's all the same pie. It's all the same dollars. And I do think that there's opportunities for class sizes and things like that. And we looked at it before,  and we're going to look hard at it again because we want to be proactive with that.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So thank you.

[11886-101] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member, presiding (runs the meeting while Chair | 2021-09-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: of value of both fish tank and reading wonders. The program that Fish Tank would be replacing the Ed report reviews highlighted that Reading Wonders was only partially only partially met. Gateway one alignment expectations that contain crucial building knowledge component. Which fish tank met?
TEXT> Neither.  And they gave us copies of all the Ed reports, which was really helpful.  Neither of these programs,  met the utilization component  or the number three gateway.  The the presenters also offered us another  reviewer, which is this one. They gave this all this, all this information and information, a package which were helpful. And  this reviewer was a student achievement partners, which  once I once I really looked through it and looks the reviewers up. It's actually a brand new reviewing company. And  the review on Reading Wonders was the first review it had ever  published, and that review was done in January of 2020, which would have been after the  fish tank pilot was begun.  So when I reread the Student Achievement Partners review and then the other article that was provided to us from Education Week, in both of these, there was,  paragraphs or  lines that instructed that this these reviews were done on the Reading Wonders 2017 version, and we're not reviewing the newest updated version and the newest updated reading.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Wonder's version met every single one of the gateways that Ed review evaluates, and this is considered the highest possible rating. This is included usability and the fish and and

[11886-104] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member, presiding (runs the meeting while Chair | 2021-09-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: program? What was in the lessons planned? What was the, the guidance that was provided for teachers that were dealing with difficult topics? I looked I literally went to the point where I would look at the article that they were using as a reference.
TEXT> I would look at the author, and then I would go find other articles and references that that author had participated in. I looked really closely at what was being put in, what was being left out, and what kind of became a theme in patterns. So one of the things that really popped out to me was, that the whole point of implementing the fish tank program was this content and knowledge. And at the end of each of these units, there is a there is a place that tells you what content, knowledge and  connections that we're trying to be made. And in the majority of the social studies units, there are actually justice and action standards, and there are explanations of standards that you can be linked to  again, to be found in the Professional development section. And primarily  it links you to a website or an online periodical or teacher's guide. That's called,  teaching for justice. And you have to just it's a free program. You can just put your name in and sign up and take a look at it. And some people would say, well,  just don't use the standards to evaluate the students, but the, the kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But then we'd really be missing the real point here. And the point here is that the program is designed for students to internalize these standards. You just you just

[11886-110] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Josh' [238], [256], [301] | 2021-09-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: until it was properly vetted with our community. Tonight we have a speaker from our community with concern. I'm completely in favor of this motion, and I just want to keep everybody on their toes, because this is not a board you can lie to.
TEXT> If you read further, it definitely says what you won't do with the science and social studies curriculum is only use fish tank materials for science and social studies. So it's not the curriculum. We were told it was a tool. No one was lying to us.  Second comment again, it's another tool. So looking at Haggerty and and nifty 5050. Those are all things we use at the school I work at. They're all there. Nothing is going to be 100%. You're not going to get your awareness and your phonics and your dolt sight words and all the word skills in one compact program. And if you do, it's going to be incredibly boring for the teachers. It's going to be incredibly boring for the students. Just for an example, Haggerty is something that the students look forward to every day in the class I work in, it's like there's there's no one classroom that's only going to be using one thing. So again, Fish Tank is a tool to help with vocabulary and comprehension. Whereas you don't get that integrity because that's where you don't get that information because that's your awareness. So that's all from an educator. I have no problem with this.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just to. Clarify, Josh, so that there is an alternate program. That's provide all those.

[11886-112] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short fragments, ayes and interjections from | 2021-09-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Just to. Clarify, Josh, so that there is an alternate program. That's provide all those.
TEXT> Teachers that the kids are not.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: Getting where they needed to be. We saw their eye ready scores skyrocket after implementing Fish Tank.

[11886-145] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (chair's 'Nick hasn't spoken yet' [226]  | 2021-09-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: we kind of had to make this decision on the fly and information evolves and here we are. This is not a retaliatory kind of like I said, it didn't give me any great pleasure at all to to make this motion neck. And then.
TEXT> I think a big focus is  has been mentioned by numerous people. Is the political nature of this curriculum.  I think the problem is, with this step is it's going to keep resulting in different curriculums if we go based upon kind of that. And I know when I was in the district as a student was there was always a lot of change. So I think the problem with kind of siding with something that seems to be on more, on one more side than the other is you're going to at some point get different boards and they can't keep playing, you know, foot flop. And that's that creates a sense of kind of no real structure. And I just feel like that as much about the  restructuring plan, the whole kind of purpose is to make things more, more uniform and more focused. That way we can deliver better results for our kids. And I think  this would not be the right direction to because of the nature of, of the seesaw of, you know, different boards, stuff like that changing over the years and, you know, that kind of stuff.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's kind of Mike and I'll go right back to you. Josh.

[11886-164] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member, presiding (runs the meeting while Chair | 2021-09-15
PREV> Nicholas Stone: political, then I think we would have had more examples of the social studies section in that presentation rather than just the science, which again, I hope is, like Frank said, not on purpose, but I you know, that's up to interpretation on that one.
TEXT> You know,  I just want to respond to Josh and I hear what you're saying, but I just and this isn't actually an A, I don't think it's an assault in the way that you think it's an assault. I don't,  there's no I don't think there's a person on this board who who doesn't feel that there should be diversity expressed in school, that we should talk about all topics, that everybody should be welcome and included, and even really difficult topics being addressed, because that's for the public good. And students actually have a constitutional right to learn things that people are uncomfortable with. I looked a lot into the laws about this, and there are things that are preserved for teachers, and there are things that are preserved for students, and there are things that are preserved for  boards such as ourselves. And so there are protections, protections by law that,  compel schools to actually  present to their students things that members of the community might not be comfortable with, but it demonstrates that it's for the public, for the public good.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So this isn't on my part. It's and I don't think anybody's part it's not an intent to, suppress that. But way back when I sent out a link before

[11886-191] Mary Ellen Janeiro | Curriculum administrator, SAU 6, six weeks in the district (first name | 2021-09-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Quickly.
TEXT> The. Second slide, if you could, Mr. Small. Thank you.  The first piece of work that needs to be done  is curriculum mapping. And I know that some of the, the, the maps and scope and sequence has not necessarily,  either existed for some of the disciplines in content area or has a long has been long, long overdue and needs to be  either dusted off or completely,  thrown out and, and started over again. So the first thing, the first way in which we want to move through, making sure that we're aligning to standards, that our students have the skills that they need at the grade level that they need is through curriculum mapping. Okay. And so mapping the first thing for curriculum mapping. So in case you just have a  a rough understanding of what that is, is that it's a matrix for aligning student learning outcomes with the specific courses at each of the grade levels. So you would have a map for expectations of what a student should know and be able to do at first grade in L.A. and in math and in science and in social studies. And you would have a map for second grade for those content areas and move through the maps, enable the faculty to be able to design and implement instruction, and to be able to develop the student's key skills and their knowledge.
NEXT> Mary Ellen Janeiro: It's that old adage, if you if you, you need that map to know where you're going, right? How do you know if you got there, if you, you you

[11886-192] Mary Ellen Janeiro | Curriculum administrator, SAU 6, six weeks in the district (first name | 2021-09-15
PREV> Mary Ellen Janeiro: in social studies. And you would have a map for second grade for those content areas and move through the maps, enable the faculty to be able to design and implement instruction, and to be able to develop the student's key skills and their knowledge.
TEXT> It's that old adage, if you if you, you need that map to know where you're going, right? How do you know if you got there, if you, you you didn't have your destination. And the curriculum maps help us to have that goal in mind, that destination in mind. Some of the things that are key to the maps are looking at essential questions. What are the important skills that students should be able to do at each grade level? Content overview. How will we get there? What will be the work that that is used to to be able to get there? How do we get those skills? What are those targeted skills and then what are the assessments. What are the frameworks for those both formative assessments and summative assessments as well? Mapping provides a catalyst for faculty to have a discussion,  in order to be able to align the curriculum, to scaffold the courses, to be able to effectively support the student learning both horizontally across grade level and vertically articulate as they move through those levels. It also helps us to inform the decisions that we make when we're considering curriculum and programs, right?
NEXT> Mary Ellen Janeiro: It's part of that vetting process. What do they need to know? What are the targets? How do we look have that checklist to say, does whatever we're considering for

[11886-193] Mary Ellen Janeiro | Curriculum administrator, SAU 6, six weeks in the district (first name | 2021-09-15
PREV> Mary Ellen Janeiro: to scaffold the courses, to be able to effectively support the student learning both horizontally across grade level and vertically articulate as they move through those levels. It also helps us to inform the decisions that we make when we're considering curriculum and programs, right?
TEXT> It's part of that vetting process. What do they need to know? What are the targets? How do we look have that checklist to say, does whatever we're considering for materials help us to be able to meet the students needs? I come at this from someone who has spent a lot of time in research. I swim in data. I want to know what outcomes have been proven, and so I would be vetting materials in maybe a through a different lens perhaps, than some of the material that exists now. Okay.  The next slide, if you could once the  curriculum maps, which are kind of this, this overview for what we expect students to be able to know and do are in place, that's when we start the work of scope and sequence. That's when we look at units. What is it that we want for our students to be able to understand, take away? What are those skills that we're harnessing as foundational pieces that are taught within the curriculum at specific grade levels? So the scope and sequence units should be built in somewhat in the same way that the maps are in that you're starting with.
NEXT> Mary Ellen Janeiro: What are the essential questions that we want students to be able to know and do within each of those units? The scope and sequence helps to provide a guide,

[11886-195] Mary Ellen Janeiro | Curriculum administrator, SAU 6, six weeks in the district (first name | 2021-09-15
PREV> Mary Ellen Janeiro: is understood because so much of our time at an elementary level is with early literacy and with math. And so the portion of a day for an elementary teacher is often spent predominantly in teaching the reading skills, the writing skills and math skills.
TEXT> So integration of, okay, how can we figure out how can we get some current events into the curriculum? How can we talk about a historical event can also be done through the work of reading, which I believe. And again, I was not here, but I believe that with the best intentions, that was what people were trying to ask of of a curriculum that would provide both social studies, integration science, integration with reading and writing skills and critical thinking skills. And so that becomes a very key piece. I would say, you know, there's some really wonderful work around the country,  in social studies and science that we would do well to look at, to model our expectations in our standards for our students, both through New Hampshire and then on a national level.  The scope and sequence assures that the kids have the appropriate skills, the concepts that they are logical and sequential, and that also provides teachers the opportunity to kind of look back and say, okay, this was covered in fourth grade.
NEXT> Mary Ellen Janeiro: So it I'm reviewing at the beginning of fifth grade in a math class and looking at number fluency. I'm reviewing these concepts that were covered in fourth grade. We

[11886-197] Mary Ellen Janeiro | Curriculum administrator, SAU 6, six weeks in the district (first name | 2021-09-15
PREV> Mary Ellen Janeiro: created in each content area, that they are content specific and that they also go, across grade levels, so that we're bringing our elementary and our middle school and our high school teachers together for a full understanding of what the content should be, so
TEXT> that we have a really clear idea of what that vertical articulation must look like in order for our students to, to be successful. So the curriculum councils, then,  will be the place where the major seat of work this year, the maps will be framed out, they'll be tweaked. We're hoping that that work is completed,  hopefully by the 1st November. And I in one way, it seems like November is a long ways off, and in another, that's an awful lot of work to get done so quickly. I think time is of the essence. I hear from teachers, from principals, from support staff, every day, all day long. Please help us to do this. This is missing for us. So while you know that it's missing, teachers know that it's missing. The community knows that it's missing. So it's something that we really want to prioritize. The curriculum councils will then get  to work on creating these units and making sure that what we have by the end of spring, our scope and sequences for each of the major content areas. It would be lovely to to be able to include all content areas the first year, but Rome wasn't built in a day.
NEXT> Mary Ellen Janeiro: We'll have to do a second phase for PE and help for fine arts. For performing arts. We'll have to. That unfortunately gets the back burner a little bit, but

[11933-4] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: blue or all the way to the right, which is three. So most of these were answered in the extremely important and important range. So for smaller class sizes, improving literacy and numeracy for the grade levels, as well as having more interventions and strategies.
TEXT> The next  was another reason for restructuring is for free universal pre-K. This means that additional year of learning for all students in a play based setting. And that was extremely important to folks, again, as we thought it would be in that sample. And we did these for initial discussion. Virus today, we know that we have to replicate this and get it out there. We are looking to have  increased the numbers for, for PK. And  the other one is  to provide consistent educational opportunities for all students in each grade level, in more educated training and focus curriculum alignment in professional development at each grade level. Media that there's only a couple of grade levels,  you know, divided out.  We can focus more. We have more teachers  along,  you know, able to actually reach, search and share as well. It allows for stronger focus in the opportunities. PLC structures that were already trying out this year. So,  next week for restructuring is flex  more flexible distribution of students within the classes in levels 2 or 3 classes in the school district, 6 to 8 in the school.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we talk about that in a couple of examples today. About that basically for if you have more teaching choice for grade, more flexibility and matching teachers, where students

[11933-5] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: stronger focus in the opportunities. PLC structures that were already trying out this year. So, next week for restructuring is flex more flexible distribution of students within the classes in levels 2 or 3 classes in the school district, 6 to 8 in the school.
TEXT> And we talk about that  in a couple of examples today. About that basically for if you have more teaching choice for grade, more flexibility and matching teachers,  where students and we try to tailor that  obviously we agree that we can not good example today was twins and disappointing that up in the same field in the school and balancing other  student needs as needed. Another reason for restructure is for more than the advanced studies in the Richmond opportunities. We talked about that with field trips and also the potential to investigate advanced academies, depending on the staffing that we  that we free up. So, you know, I'll go through this. This is the original timeline that we did, going back in that time capsule in  January of 20. And we kind of pushed, pushed it together and had a lot of forms that compress in a short period of time. But we had a I thought we had some pretty good momentum with that, with that group. All the, all the way through those months. So what we did was try to try to use that in uplift to excuse me.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Updated for the fall into the spring of 22. For, for this year. And basically we started over the summer. We're in the, we started selecting the members to be

[11933-6] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: short period of time. But we had a I thought we had some pretty good momentum with that, with that group. All the, all the way through those months. So what we did was try to try to use that in uplift to excuse me.
TEXT> Updated for the fall into the spring of  22.  For, for this year. And basically we started over the summer. We're in the, we started selecting the members to be contacted. We have those lists, we put out the list and the old we wanted to have the opportunity to do this and put out a couple more surveys. We are here now in the 20th televising this. We did have one  on the 25th of October as well, and then also be able to have feedback in the next board meeting. And  the, I believe, the 33rd week of  October. So,  same thing with in November. Kind of meeting up through the board, have the subcommittee,  everything that we do in this board will be the, the, the budget  subcommittee and the impact analysis. So everything will all will be out in the open. And we have a lot of work to do. For this in a couple other things, just just for the budgeting season to get that and some,  the areas for the strategic plan. There are six major areas.  The first three, we thought that the most critical learning and teaching at age six improve student achievement, increasing the student time on learning.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Recruiting and retaining the best staff and and brightest that possible. Expanding school safety efforts. Working with our district special ed programing and also looking at the governance structure. That's

[11933-8] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: had some kind of true talk in the in the summer forum. And we want to continue these conversations with the board and with community members, particularly with the committee. But our intent was in our focus is on early, early literacy and numeracy gains.
TEXT> Stability and control of class size and staffing. Complete equity for all students. All students go to each school. Stronger. Consistent targeting curriculum assessment interventions at each grade level. Universal all day pre-K for students aged four.  We also are looking to see, depending on the enrollment, the surveys, what we can offer to  H.  Three year old students as well, if possible. You unique programing experiential curriculum opportunities in the entire grade level. So  we're talking about cultural classroom, other types of field trips. That can follow up and wrap around and also  reduce conflict with the age discrepancies. But one of the pieces that I've left out in this, bulleted that we also know that when students travel together and I cohort for multiple years and share those common experiences. They, they create a tighter cohorts all the way through. For resiliency when they get to the middle school and starting that sooner. And it also we also know that too from some historical accounts, which we've got our history lessons  last year that  the schools  in Claremont work  for a few years were structured in a similar way where that that people went all the way through.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we'll talk about that when we get into our group work as well. So that was it. Now the the concerns and things that we still have to come

[11933-9] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And it also we also know that too from some historical accounts, which we've got our history lessons last year that the schools in Claremont work for a few years were structured in a similar way where that that people went all the way through.
TEXT> And we'll talk about that when we get into our group work as well. So that was it. Now the the concerns and things that we still have to come up with answers on. And there's and I'll talk specifically about this since this summer because we are working on some of these things. So transportation is something that we there's no way we're going to know it all the way through until we take and actually model every model, the configuration that we come up early and we have to model it for each kid. Do the bus routes and Pamela and her crew are absolutely incredible with this.  They run all the Boston to multiple times every year. They do so much behind the scenes work, and  we're ready to do that as well. So some of the things that came up is, do we have enough busses?  What about siblings at bus stops going to multiple,  elementary schools if they're just a year apart? And those types of things  are led to many transitions for students. Were the three  three transitions in the eight year span?  Five total, not the three as before.  Not time for leadership roles for the upperclassmen. The real littles  in the early grades. The three days in the case. In the month sacri assignments, process and procedures.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: How exactly would that go down? What's the process? How will be structured? What are the funds that they are raised? The whole idea of the loss of the neighborhood

[11933-51] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: meetings. It will divide up kind of the work that we have to look in and get feedback from each one. So we may have a transportation group, we may have a curriculum group. We may have all of a kind of certain value added.
TEXT> And then we want to really hear the hard questions about what,  what we have to get past to do this meaning, particularly as I say this, it is no no small thing to to switch from embedded neighborhood schools that have a long history and culture in the town. And it has to be it has to be worth it. We we think that it's worth pursuing. We think the literacy gains  all the way out to the students. 12 year old more. One in the school district will be substantial. And that's why that's why we're pursuing it. But, we know to we're going to discuss the impact and that's why we want to get on it. That's why we want to model it, particularly with transportation, if there's any cost drivers for the budget. But again, this is this is supposed to be neutral or less money. So it's not I don't think it's going to get by the board if it's more money.  Would be a tougher sell. So that's where we always work in the first round and that's where we are now. So same limited sources. We just hope that we can get more students in the school district and increasing literacy skills soon without end.
NEXT> Jessica Christian: So thank you for sharing the timeline again. And just another question I heard you say of sending out an additional survey. And I want to go back to my

[11933-52] Jessica Christian | Parent of three district students and educator (self-identified [74]:  | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Would be a tougher sell. So that's where we always work in the first round and that's where we are now. So same limited sources. We just hope that we can get more students in the school district and increasing literacy skills soon without end.
TEXT> So thank you for sharing the timeline again. And  just another question I heard you say of sending out an additional survey. And I want to go back to my first question about the purpose of the survey, because while I found those questions to be,  beautifully written, I felt also that there was no other way to answer them, but important and very important, right? There's there's no one, well, limited people who are going to say that their child's education is not important.  My bigger question, though, is how  would this new arrangement help to meet those questions that the original survey had hit on? And will the follow up survey that you're sending help us to narrow down the how  of it?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yes. So, yeah. So the survey first of all, we need to ask identifying information that your you know, what group your you teach your parents stakeholder. You know who

[11933-57] Jessica Christian | Parent of three district students and educator (self-identified [74]:  | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Absolutely. There we go.
TEXT> Okay, great. So, and so let's look at that bottom line, improving literacy and numeracy for all right through a variety of settings. Of course that is I of course it's extremely important right. You want all children to be able to have improved literacy and numeracy skills. So I and so my wonder is yes, that's very important. But the question is not asking in a way that saying this is the way it can be presented and instructed to the students in the current situation that we have, and this is how the improvement will happen in the new proposed school structure.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. Right. Yeah. You can't differentiate between the two structures. I agree, it's also laird with things that need to be tease out. I the, the intervention of conditions and

[11933-63] Jessica Christian | Parent of three district students and educator (self-identified [74]:  | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. Yeah. Very good. Very good point on the next one. Okay.
TEXT> So  additional reasonable. Restrictions for riding. On trees. All right. So that one for me. The restructuring to provide consistent educational opportunities for all students within each grade level. I would just have the question of why isn't that happening already? But  that's either here nor there.  And then another reason for research is to offer an opportunity for free universal pre-K. Absolutely. Everyone's going to agree with that. Everybody thinks that's important. It's important for kiddos. And, that would be amazing for that to happen. But again, does it tie into that's only a possibility if we restructure the schools?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, that one is a definite yes. I think I don't know how we could do the cost that we didn't restructure. So yeah, that'd be that. I, I don't

[11933-67] Jessica Christian | Parent of three district students and educator (self-identified [74]:  | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So more diversity and alignment with teachers as well and specific needs of students. With teachers, sometimes it's tougher when there's some. I think even this year there may be only one teacher for great, or two here or there. You know, in some school.
TEXT> I understand that  being able to spread the kids out across more classrooms could be beneficial for a variety of reasons. I should tell you also, I'm an educator, so I get I get that question. With that being said,  I see how that, in other words, restricted that more often. So what's the more opportunities for advanced studies in a regiment? How would that happen with this setting?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So I think there was more opportunities that you could take, particularly focused outdoor classes. These are the discussions we had in the for the summer program when we

[11933-76] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: So the one question it was a follow up that to have.
TEXT> Yeah. So we, we we don't think that we're going to have to hire additional pre-K teachers. We think that we might have enough teachers now to do that and switch and search. And we have to look at all of that again.  If there was a shift from we would do that.  And kind of looking at that, obviously if we had our own teachers there and we would have enough time, hopefully they could get, you know, certified if they weren't certified or things like that. We we would look that way. But we also we don't know what we're reacting to yet as well. Until we have that survey out there, we don't know the degree to which people will want to participate. You know, family. So we expect it to be high, but we don't we don't know what that would be if I can't say, you know, having  my third year for sending budgets through the budgeting committee of the school board and things like that, they asked all questions, okay. Everything about it.  And  we, you know, they're going to be  alive and well throughout this whole process, asking those to make sure it's worth the allocation of taxpayer money, and also that there's a benefit for student achievement for the. Yeah, we we have a lot that we have to we have to recognize and we have to prove and quantify. So.
NEXT> Tyler: You're on it. Yes. Tyler. Thank you. I feel like you would have had to wait until you have more than one, so. Oh. So I went to school edition,

[11963-16] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. And to the Republic for which it stands. One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty.
TEXT> So, again, a reminder to to turn off cell phones, electronic devices.  We're not going to do attendance again. But at this time I would like to introduce our student representative. Emily. So, are you nervous? Emily. Oh, good. So you can tell us a little bit about yourself and why you'd like to be deployed.
NEXT> Emily: I'm a senior at Stevens. It was announced a few times that someone was needed for it and nobody took it, so I did.

[11963-38] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-10-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: For yourself. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's important for people to know the difference. Yeah. Yeah. So so.
TEXT> That's where it is now. The nurse is going to talk about some of the documents in the process. They get in more details. But it is a great resource. And it's also I think great that  we, we will not  we can focus on our own students and our own staff and everything else and what we're seeing and,  that, that, you know, I'll share. And also  on our call  this morning, we have a every other week meeting with  the folks at Fall Mountain and a lot of the Dartmouth doctors,  just discussing what they're hearing out there. And one of the things that is striking a chord, and I know we talked about this, previously, particularly early on with Covid, is when we first started out, we were afraid  and nervous of multigenerational homes and younger students and folks going home, infecting older folks who could, you know, be at risk of death. As before, vaccines in the early days, kind of last January peak,  all the numbers that I showed before, we've exceeded that peak right now. Now there's different. At least we have a vaccine and all the other things. But we're we're higher than the January  that that peak of cases  right now. And that's what the data shows and everything like that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But I think what we heard today from Fall Mountain, folks, parallel to what we're seeing in our district, and I had a neighbor, frankly, a 41 year old athletic

[11963-102] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Ronnie: allergy symptoms like runny noses, coughs, help me out, guys. Or throats. Yeah. We're pretty we're we're pretty liberals. Fevers. You know, anything greater than 100.4? We is considered a fever. So at that point, we we do a lot of collaboration with the teachers.
TEXT> You know, we're not just sending them out immediately. We're really, you know, being thoughtful about it and looking at the child and saying, you know, you can tell with these, especially the littles, if they look sick or not. So we really just aren't like, okay, you have a headache, you're out of here. You know, we're asking questions to see if we can keep them in school. But unfortunately when we can't, we can't. We have to send them home. We have a form one second. We have a form that we fill out that we give to the parents that I didn't include in this packet. It's an illness.  It's an illness information form. And what we do is we circle the, the symptoms that the child has had on it. It says your child needs to be tested or returned,  tested. If they test negative, they can return to school. Otherwise they need to be out for for ten days and we put the date on it when they can return. We also have a conversation with the parents, and we let them know on the phone when we talk to them. We need your child to be tested or out for ten days. So we make it very clear, you know, as clear as we can upfront.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: That's actually where my my question was going to be. Perfect. Perfect point. Thank you. How many children have been sent home but did not test positive?

[11963-106] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Ronnie: emailed this all to everybody tonight was so I broke down based upon September and October to date numbers. So in September for Stevens High School, there were 79 students that we put on protocol, 19 were students were on protocol due to household contact.
TEXT> So that means we were told that somebody in the family had tested positive and they needed to go home at of nine out of nine of those students then tested positive, 19 of those students had the option  to test or not test, and they chose not to test and just  stay home. For those ten days. 22 students tested positive in 22 students actually tested positive for Stevens in September.
NEXT> Unidentified: Stevens.

[11963-108] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: Stevens.
TEXT> Yes, this is Stevens in October. So to date,  up till today, 45 students are on protocol. One student is partially vaccinated. We have 44 unvaccinated students. Seven of the students on protocol were due to household contacts. Two of those tested positive and 15 of those chose not to test and stay out the full ten days. 19 of those students tested positive. And my little note is that we didn't start looking at whether or not they were vaccinated until  just this month, until October. We,  And then.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm going to talk to you, Jeff. Sorry, Ronnie.

[11963-151] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Ronnie: practice. And when I've been in touch with the state with regard to our with this cluster, and we'll talk about another one, they said that we are doing an amazing job, and they're really happy with the job that we're doing within our schools.
TEXT> You know,  all of the mitigation steps we have in place,  the only one that we're not doing right now is SaaS. And we'll talk. We'll get to that October. There are 40 students on protocol, two vaccinated students. And again, will we won't necessarily count that as accurate because I will go back and double check those. 11 of the students were household contacts, and 11 of those 11 more of those chose not to test. And we had seven. Two students had tested positive. Now, getting to the, Almost kind of. Getting to the,  we're starting now in the elementary schools. The thing about the elementary school is, I want you to remember is that this is our unvaccinated population,  that, you know, they they don't have a choice. You know, whatever we bring in or their parents bring home is what they're getting.  So at bluff,  the other thing I want to point out to you, if you notice on the side, the graphing on the side, the numbers look differently. And that's because the total number of registered students for each, each  school is, is different.  So at bluff, 26 students were in protocol eight due to household contacts, two tested positive, eight HOS not to test, and six students tested positive. In October, we had 14 students on protocol. Two students were due to household. Both of them tested positive, three students chose not to test and seven students tested positive.
NEXT> Ronnie: So what I was just trying to capture on the graph was the total of positives and the percentage based on the amount of registered students to give us that,

[11963-152] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Ronnie: household contacts, two tested positive, eight HOS not to test, and six students tested positive. In October, we had 14 students on protocol. Two students were due to household. Both of them tested positive, three students chose not to test and seven students tested positive.
TEXT> So what I was just trying to capture on the graph was  the total of positives and the percentage based on the amount of registered students to give us that, that percentage. The next school is Disney. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to touch it. You moved it already. Thank you. At Disney we had 54 students on protocol. Five were due to household contacts, 15 chose not to test, and ten students tested tested positive in October. We have 41 students on protocol seven due to household contacts, 14 chose not to test and three students so far have tested tested positive. And then the last,  The last one is maple and maple. And a lot of these numbers are also a little bit higher with regards to the students that are out on protocol because they have brothers and sisters,  in the building. You know, I had one family of three that was out for close to 20 days.  So at Maple, there are,  51 students on protocol. In September, 27 students due to household contact, 15 students chose not to test and 13 students tested positive in October. We have 52 students on protocol. 17 students were due to household contacts, 14 chose not to test and 13 tested positive. We did have one cluster within the fourth grade that included six students, one of which was a household contact.
NEXT> Ronnie: So this this cluster was not reported. And I want to apologize to all of you. I was in contact with the state. The person who had my case or

[11963-176] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: Let.
TEXT> I want to let all of you know, is that we,  right now  the, the,  the rapid tests really are only they're, they're more accurate if they're symptomatic. We are accepting rapid tests for symptomatic people,  not asymptomatic people. We are also trialing home tests. But just with our staff right now, we are not accepting home tests yet for our our students, mostly because we wanted to see how it worked. We wanted to see how accurate it was. And,  it's really hard to track and to trace. That was one of the comments that on the phone call with Doctor Chan was that they're having a really tough time now with people just doing home tests, kind of tracking the data and,  and following  and following things. I think at some point we are going to move to we've been talking about it more and more. We are going to we are going to move to accept home tests for for students with parameters that we need. A what we've asking staff to do is if you do the home test, we want a picture of it. So we need to have you send us, send us in a picture of the first test. And then we're asking that they send us a picture of the second test in 36 hours.
NEXT> Ronnie: The follow up test. And so far we've had a couple of staff members do it. I myself included this morning did it. And it's pretty easy to, to test

[11963-196] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> I raised concern,  after we got the onslaught of emails.  But outside of the emails, I got contacted from a parent who's,  who found out there was an exposure to their child from another parent.  And then they ended up testing positive. And if they hadn't heard from that parent like they were asymptomatic, they wouldn't they would have ended up at school and probably passed it on to others. So I guess my biggest concern is that the, I mean, middle school and lower all the grades are together.
NEXT> Ronnie: Mostly they're not actually.

[11963-213] Tessa Akins | School nurse, Claremont Middle School (introduced by Ronnie; spelling  | 2021-10-20
PREV> Ronnie: gotten your kids vaccinated? Because, you know, you could, you know, they could be in school and and you could, you know, they wouldn't miss any school unless, of course, they were symptomatic. So these are conversations we have, I think until we're we're purple.
TEXT> Yes. And going back to his conversation about a parent finding out someone was exposed, I get those calls every day I work. I'm at the middle school. In part of the problem here is that we're not always being told when there is a positive family member.  But the children are telling their friends and then their friends are telling their parents. So our information is only as good as what's being disclosed to us. Also, regarding the vaccination, too, we can only go on what they say until we can get confirmation that we're allowed to ask for proof of vaccination. We can only say, okay, they're vaccinated. They can be in school if they say they are.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: There's also a benefit, according to the guidelines, to disclose whether or not you've been infected because your quarantining guidance changes if you've been infected and have been positively diagnosed.

[11963-214] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Tessa Akins: us. Also, regarding the vaccination, too, we can only go on what they say until we can get confirmation that we're allowed to ask for proof of vaccination. We can only say, okay, they're vaccinated. They can be in school if they say they are.
TEXT> There's also a benefit, according to the guidelines, to  disclose whether or not you've been infected because your quarantining guidance changes if you've been infected and have been positively diagnosed. So there is a benefit to the child and the family in that regard in the long term, because that is considered natural immunity for 90 days.
NEXT> Tessa Akins: Yeah.

[11963-216] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 - fragments of her presentation and her recog | 2021-10-20
PREV> Tessa Akins: Yeah.
TEXT> Yeah. So the other,  so about the quarantining piece.  I had received a phone call recently from one a local daycare center who wanted to know why we weren't quarantining our kids for the 20 days.  And I said one,  really? We want to want to keep these kids in school. And right now, what we're doing is working. I know it is a recommendation in the state, but,  it's it's a very small little tiny blurb in the toolkit. It's under. I'd have to find it for you, Doctor Whitney, to to show you where it is. But my thing was, was if it's not in our algorithm, if it's not in our algorithm, we're not going to follow it. And right now that toolkit is our Bible. It's what we follow. And until the state, you know, adds that to that piece of it. I, I'm not going to go digging into the, you know, the innuendos within some of it when right now what we're doing appears to be working as compared to other schools across the state.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so Ronnie, define the ten days for me. Is it ten days from being sent home or is it ten days from when symptoms first appeared or so?

[11963-227] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Steven Horsky: So I guess would air to the cautious eye. We're looking at a three day, right. Just just for averaging.
TEXT> And most of these children are are sick. And so the rule what we're trying to do, as a rule of thumb, is just because you're Covid negative doesn't give you a free pass to come back to school sick. If you can't keep your mask on without coughing and without, you know, kind of buggering it up, we would really prefer you stay home for a few more days until you're better.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Standard protocol. Exactly.

[11963-274] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Steven Horsky: feel that that we may want to look in the mirror at what we've already said yes to. Essentially when it comes to the Puerto Rico trip, because it seems as though, in my opinion, in this is, you know, take it how you want.
TEXT> It seems as though we're favoring,  the high school trip that's out of country compared to a local trip.  Is far as approving what we're going to do now in light of that. My understanding is, is the Puerto Rico trip is using charter busses versus using our fleet.  But realistically, the using  our fleet answer it really question. The question comes to my mind is, is we're using our fleet every day with these students to get them to school. So  I don't buy into that  100% because that's like basically saying we shouldn't be bussing our kids to school.  I get that this is an additional expense. I understand that. I understand it's an extracurricular activity, but at some point we need to do if we're going to do one thing we need to do. Equal playing field.  Given that there. I don't understand why we can't sanction it. We signed field trip forms, medical forms, stuff like that. So really, I think,  I guess the real the real clarification, I guess I really kind of posed to the board is if we're going to approve a trip to Puerto Rico and we're not going to let our youth at the middle school go to a in New England game for a few hours, I kind of have problems with with the Puerto Rico trip.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Mike Patron and then Nick and then Josh.

[11963-281] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-10-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that we have on our staff strains. We have the best of intentions to have more field trips and and, you know, business as usual to the degree that we can do that. But most recently, and I think the elementary principal, Louis, is there.
TEXT> We we, we can't even commit to we want to do winter classroom and stuff really locally. And,  we're already planning to do those even more locally in and around the school walking and things like that, already preparing ahead of time if we have to pull back the transportation. The point was made that our fleet of our 13 busses is, you know, designed and we do go back and forth to school every day. That is priority one, getting the kids in the classrooms. We can't lose sight of that. As a boy. That's where everyone is. That was our model all of last year. We're doing a great job monitoring it  in. There could be and again, positive vibes. Right. But as as as has been asked  you know if if it does get Harrier  we don't know what we would do. In that case. We advertise to get extra drivers. We had a couple online. Other districts are decimated with busses. That's one of the Monadnock concerns. Why that's that's what usually goes first. That was the foundation of our first reopening plan. And the early Covid was was protecting that. We remember last year we didn't even have the high school, didn't have a bus for most of the year. Like we we have all those roads where we're running and that's our that's our priority. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So why can't he charter a bus?

[11963-321] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: So yeah.
TEXT> And the other discussion that we had was in the spirit of this, it's a great organizing event. It's great for camaraderie. It's great for all those things like it used to be and things like that. It's wonderful. Right. But the other thing that we said as the administrative team, if I, if I recall, is why why can't why can't parents drive as well? Like, why can't we do a caravan? Why can't we make it a day? Why, why wouldn't we have that? And the only thing I'm saying, not here. I'm just saying in 30 years, particularly mostly as a coach, as a youth coach, as a high school coach, as all of those things, as a principal, sometimes as Sean and others and other principals might mention, sometimes it sounds great and there's 80 bucks in a head and you have a  a  hard what seems like a hard commitment for all that. And then there's an outlay and then just stuff goes south and only 60 people go, and who eats those 20 seats?
NEXT> Unidentified: Me.

[11963-409] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Joshua Lambert: the schools during the school day because I work during the school day. But, I mean, how many times have people been to the schools like, it's not I'm assuming you're not there for hours on end. It's not gonna hurt. Put on a mask.
TEXT> Being that I'm the one that keeps looking for fairness.  You know,  that was one of my decisions.  To wear a mask every time I go into the building. At this point,  I don't really care one way about the optics. I hate the dang mask. I am not a fan of the vaccine. Knowing how many people have gotten Covid that have gotten the vaccine. I'm vaccinated and I'm wearing a mask. Just throwing that out there. I'm not in that camp. Everybody has the right to make their decisions with their doctors and their selves.  I'm going to respect that if I'm going to make the children where I'm asking the building current currently based off of our protocol, that I'm going to do it.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So I think to me there are two different parts. So here at this meeting, I say I'm all for it's your choice. Wear masks. Don't wear a mask. If

[11963-423] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: So Steve, you know.
TEXT> It's not easy being in the, the minority camp over here on my little island.  But I'm going to follow the rules, especially when I'm making the kids do it.  You know, and at the end of the day, technically using the words business hours, we're conducting business. So it really it's a it's as much as I'd love to see it be choice and how much I hate these masks. If I'm going to make kids mask up and muzzle them, I'm going to muzzle myself too, because I'm not above those children either.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay? I just wanted to get that out there and just we're not I don't I don't want a motion.

[11963-447] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2021-10-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: go. We typically have winter concerts right now as far as being indoors and doing a concert that is would not be able to happen to have spectators inside. So I'm asking that maybe we can try to get people to think outside the box.
TEXT> Covid money, rent a tent, rent space heaters, do a nice I don't know what the the thought is, but and even elementary, those concerts are very important to these kids that work all year long. And I know the numbers at the high school are small so far in van choir,  but I just,  you know, plays things like that. I wanted to speak up for them.
NEXT> Unidentified: So, so.

[11963-468] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: So Steve okay.
TEXT> So I have two quick things.  I believe by then we may need to have a non public for personnel in regards to contract discussion. So I'd like to see that on the agenda. And the other thing is I'm going to play a little favoritism here because we didn't have it on our agenda. And I missed it when making the amendments to the agenda. But we did have our student rep available with a report. So let's make sure we have.
NEXT> Unidentified: A student before.

[11963-516] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: Be excluded.
TEXT> Exclude a Claremont resident from any activities that our kids are.
NEXT> Unidentified: I don't think you.

[11980-10] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-10-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: They reused all of the stones that they had. They also had stolen from other sites. There's actually, granite face stones in there now. It's just beautiful. You'll see it when you come in. It should be completed in the next three weeks or so.
TEXT> You can see the inside and the outside of the curved back conference room.  It's it's cluttered now with you see some of the things, but,  beautiful, beautiful space. Next item that I had was  to just talk about how we have the Covid tracking for both boards.  And  we, we did a similar one for,  for unity  as well. And they, they proposed another matrix that that we'll talk about, but it's just to be vigilant about,  Covid spread. And as I mentioned in the in the Claremont meeting last night, and also we mentioned it recently and in unity.  It's we've we've done a great job managing even though there's spikes in this, a little bit of dangerous,  you know, in the area. And there have been a few cases even at Unity Elementary School and scattered out throughout the Claremont schools. There's been very little  to to know sustained  disruption of classes, and  teachers and students should be complimented on how well they're adhering to everything.  And then basically, I just went over where we were in Sullivan and County and all of the all of the spikes, you can see,  this, this graph, if you just follow it, you can see,  the far right spike.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's it's easier to see than the ones we had last night, but that's, that's the the left spike is the the January spike. That's our current spike. But the

[12005-33] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1; former Claremont School Board member (ASR 'J | 2021-11-03
PREV> Jason Benware: that cost would be considerably more than what it currently is. I just have a concern with taking money that we would potentially be saving by restructuring, and then putting it into something that is likely going to cost us more money year after year.
TEXT> So out of curiosity, I sat down today because I'd like to kind of know what I'm talking about. Obviously, I'm not always right about things. However, I started to do some research and I just googled,  what is the actual long term effect in this of pre-K on test scores? And what I discovered was there's equally as many articles that suggest that over a couple of year period after these kids who have had pre-K are interacting with kids who didn't have pre-K, those kids who didn't have it catch up. So  I'm not necessarily sure how  effective or how much the spend for having it actually pays off in the long run. Now, there are also other varying studies that would suggest that on a social emotional level, these kids do better later on in life. It's still it's kind of up in the air, but for me, I feel as though taking this restructure and then using it as a tool to put this other program into place is a bad idea. I kind of think there's a lot of good points about restructuring. I think that from a political, logical standpoint, it makes sense. But I feel as though the gains by restructuring and the savings that we could actually have to the town make more sense than trying to add in a program that may or may not do more for the kids in our district.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So, that concerns me. And I just wanted to bring that concern up because I feel as though I'm probably not the only one who feels that way. And if

[12005-40] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-11-03
PREV> Jason Benware: Good night guys.
TEXT> Seeing none the closed citizens comments. And we will move to our student rep report.
NEXT> Unidentified: I just have a couple important dates from the high school, mostly for seniors. On November 18th, we have the I applied day, where New Hampshire waves its application fees

[12005-44] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair - runs the meeting from the superintenden | 2021-11-03
PREV> Unidentified: They do.
TEXT> Yeah. Okay. Any questions for the student group? Superintendents report.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Sure. So I can. Try to mitigate the fog factor on the glasses with the mask. All right, so I have a close up for the same screen up there,

[12005-46] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: shout out to Tammy Morris and Jessica Casa, who who, coordinated all of it. Or as Frank would say, were the Wranglers in this and training people at the different buildings and putting, putting all this stuff on there and all the departments and programs.
TEXT> And it took months actually, to do and roll it out and work with the to convert the web page over. So,  we think people at home will enjoy it and  find it useful.  The areas that I want to focus on tonight are the first two  areas of the strategic plan.  Teaching and learning to improve student achievement and increasing  the individual student time on learning, and specifically in two ways. We're going to talk about that one with the elementary restructuring, with the focus on the universal pre-K to expand early literacy.  Moving the early childhood program that we have, the small program that we have the same program that we have into  an elementary school as part of the restructuring. And from what we what we it was always part of the restructuring was always the driver for the restructuring. Just to clarify what   Mr. Ben said. So the, the, the feasibility  where we are now in our beginning of modeling this,  is that we have looked at the bus routes, we've looked at the staff list, we've graduated up the kids who are currently now, we've looked at the projections in the historical over the past 2 or 3 years to see  that the enrollment of what to expect in  and the students that are that are coming up.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we do think and it does seem more feasible to, not have and also in hearing the feedback as well. And what we've been looking at, we still have

[12005-48] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: looking at combining, okay, we'll be looking at making the the three secondary schools, the middle school, Stevens High School and the tech Center having common schedules where, you could have students at the middle school accessing some of the programs at the tech center.
TEXT> You could have ninth graders and 10th graders at the high school, at more at the tech center.  And you would also be able to have  more time in core classes, up to 40% more time at the high school to really focus on the academic achievement,  in kind of focusing at the core. And students would still be able to access  additional classes and half year semester courses. And we'll present more on this as we go forward.  And but I wanted to put it out there of what, how and why we're looking at all of these things. And basically it is to use the same resources that we've had and use them in different ways, apply them in different ways, so that we have  a focus on time learning and student achievement over what we have had before. And I'll show you some more slides on that as we go forward. All right. So this was the original I can't stress this enough. Even with our administrative team. We had a meeting right before this.  We go back and this is the first this is the slide that we used. And actually, from the presentation Mr. Bennett was talking about, this slide was  put out.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This was in that that actually first budget presentation. It's the exact same slide. So that's what we were talking about. And this is this is one that I can

[12005-51] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: locally as well, looking at the students. But what we're looking at now, and the reason there's a question mark next to a question mark Maple in Bluff, is we use the same grid, but what we're looking at is what the projected numbers are.
TEXT> 320 are  rolling that all in where we had first looked at it at 379. It seems to be we actually graduated the kids and moved them forward with the actual that we have now.  And you see the numbers they are, they just about wash out. Those two are kind of flip flop, but we don't know where. Right now we have an idea, but we do think that we could fold in the early  literacy in one school and then have two parallel  second through fifth  elementaries. So the benefit of that, I think, for the community and also for the students, is that there would be one less transition. What we have to see and we still have to  finish the work on this is if it is exactly  if there are the are  the savings and the shifts that we saw on the original go round. So instead of going to all three, we still are not taking off the table going to all three, but we're trying to model both at the same time since it's just the same spreadsheet exercise.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Mike, can I ask a quick question?

[12005-90] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Ben Nester: We have 22 on.
TEXT> On a waiting list to go in of typical. So there's a need that where people would want to access it. I definitely understand the, the,  the perspective  of  of of board members, both current and past about this, but the idea is to get a jump start on the  on the literacy and also in the socialization. And those do those elements do that. We can show some of the studies. We can show  some of the actual local results. Okay. So of the students who participated in that program, how many ended up being in because and this is the rationale and I'm sure you want to see numbers and we'll more time we'll get you some. But the feeling is from the directors and from looking at the first couple of years of data and just what they know of anecdotally is of the students who participate in that program. Very few go into the severe special needs program even within district, and most are mainstreamed  in.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So can I get a clarification of something you said? So I my understanding is that, we're required to have a program or we're required to provide services.

[12005-115] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: times for, for chemistry and professional learning communities with in the day. Next slide is the just to impress upon people in. Many of you in the biz may know of this or you have look at this. But this is from two years ago.
TEXT> This is the Stevens High School and,  school profile, where it talks about what we offer for courses, how they how they meet, where our kids go to school, graduate school rates and all, all those types of things in the results. So the great the grade scale and these are the rules in kind of that that we have to have to have a certain amount of profile and graduation credits to, to graduate. But some of those credits and some of those, some of the requirements and things like that are mandated by the state and some are local. But I just wanted to show the whole framework of scheduling and all the things that we take into consideration. This is the  former Bell schedule, same one that they have now for Stevens. I,  this is the middle school proposed schedule. Okay, the master schedule. And then this was what we looked at when we were talking, beginning in the summer, of how we might have a six period schedule,  so that we could melt all the schedules together and including in the next slide,  the starting point for melding the middle school, high school tech.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And that's Newport High School schedule, okay, in their tech school schedule, which there's always been inconsistencies between travel time and lost time and things like that. It's never really

[12005-116] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: looked at when we were talking, beginning in the summer, of how we might have a six period schedule, so that we could melt all the schedules together and including in the next slide, the starting point for melding the middle school, high school tech.
TEXT> And that's Newport High School schedule, okay, in their tech school schedule, which there's always been inconsistencies between travel time and lost time and things like that. It's never really jive as well as it could. And we  have spoken to them to have meetings about the schedule, and we're going to do that  soon. And there's Newport High schedule, which you can see from, and they may go back to a block and a B block. I'm not quite sure. I don't think they're sure yet. So this is what we're proposing. This is what the middle school currently has. What I propose is that if you fix the first, the fifth in the last block, you could still have that rotation. That's what's known as a waterfall in the middle, which they like that so that the kids are mixing it up a little bit. When you fix some of them, then you could access the tech, you can access other things. They're all the same amount of time. You see 62 and 57 in the left hand column. Those can be averaged to get to 60 as well. Okay. But they're all right around the same time with passing times and other things in there.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is the Stevens schedule. You'll know when they're they're all 60 minutes, just for argument's sake, all the way through. People may look at that and say, where's the

[12005-129] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member - cluster also carries the clerk's roll  | 2021-11-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well
TEXT> We were able to go to the chime in here. Nick and I were able to go to the, forum on the restructuring session and,  the take home message from, for me, above and beyond, listening to what the concerns of the citizens were, was that we're doing a very poor job of messaging, really, the value and the benefit of this restructuring beyond kind of a vague, benefit of doing the universal pre-K. And in response to I did a lot of looking into what the concerns of the citizens were. And at some point, I'd like to answer to those and see if I can allay some fears or concerns related to transitions,  in particular frequencies of changing schools and so forth,  and not having siblings within the same schools, because I, I took those concerns seriously, and I spent some time actually delving into some literature about that, some actual  literature from educational resources that were pretty credible. So I think I could speak to those.  But I don't think that the community or the community may not have a sense of urgency here, that I really feel myself and looking over our historical data of our academic achievement. In reality, it's stunning to me that people haven't been beating down the door demanding that we do something radically different to change what we're doing in the district, because we are really failing our students dismally.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If you look at these historical scores and even our present scores, it's really shocking. And, where we stand in the state is I think we're one step above Berlin,

[12005-130] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member - cluster also carries the clerk's roll  | 2021-11-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: over our historical data of our academic achievement. In reality, it's stunning to me that people haven't been beating down the door demanding that we do something radically different to change what we're doing in the district, because we are really failing our students dismally.
TEXT> If you look at these historical scores and even our present scores, it's really shocking. And,  where we stand in the state is I think we're one step above Berlin, New Hampshire, which is basically saying we're Louisiana and we shouldn't be, you know, you know, set resting on our laurels because we're not Mississippi. And,  and. So I think we're really not communicating that really well. And in particular, the whole issue related to Covid and not wanting to move forward with the restructuring in a fashion because of the stressors on the students and the stressors on the teacher. Those are really real. But also real is catastrophic losses that we had educationally. And the idea that we will be able to recoup any of those costs, those losses, maintaining the status quo is, is inconceivable. Additionally to that, I like to insulate our current administration a little bit from  what I'm going to say is one of the reasons that I feel strongly about going to the three school  system is that I think it really gives us an opportunity to meld our schools in a way where there's a linear progression, where every single student gets the exact same academic experience.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: There's going to be no way, shape or form that any student is going to have any any advantage or disadvantage from anyone else. In addition to that ensures that

[12005-131] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member - cluster also carries the clerk's roll  | 2021-11-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: the reasons that I feel strongly about going to the three school system is that I think it really gives us an opportunity to meld our schools in a way where there's a linear progression, where every single student gets the exact same academic experience.
TEXT> There's going to be no way, shape or form that any student is going to have any any advantage or disadvantage from anyone else. In addition to that ensures that we blend our socioeconomic groups equally, also allows us to,  share the depth and breadth of knowledge that all of the students have,  the teachers have, they can share. Once we develop a new culture, we clearly have a fractured culture and a fractured leadership kind of system in our school district. There's absolutely. The more I have read about it and the more I reviewed stuff at, the more I'm utterly convinced of that. And in particular, I want to say that it's really not shouldn't rest on the teachers.  The teachers are given an environment and a framework by which to work, and they can give 150%, 150% of the time and still fail. And I think it must be extremely frustrating for teachers to be working really, really hard and not be working in an environment  that supports this, the growth that we're we're looking for. And I think if we're going to move forward with the restructuring, we have to have an excruciating, clear agenda. We have to have really defined and extremely bold goals that we put numbers to in a timeline to, with the understanding that we don't meet that timeline or we don't meet those numbers.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's a systems issue and not really a teachers issue. Now, this isn't saying, as far as I'm concerned, that there aren't teachers that have that we may have in

[12005-134] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member - cluster also carries the clerk's roll  | 2021-11-03
PREV> Dr. Janeiro: It. Was prior to that, prior to that 2002 to 2006.
TEXT> So there's. A. Ton of data out there for anybody who's looking for it to really understand how restructuring works. And there's actually a lot of research based that they now have information about what works, what doesn't work because of this ESA program that they put forward. So there was a lot of schools that went through heavy duty restructuring, either closures or, charter schools. And there were some really impressive, impressive results in districts that were in far worse situations than ours and turn around results that happen within four years, going from, you know, 25 or 15% of the kids at proficient levels to quadrupling that number in four years. And those were actually districts that we could drive to. There's one district that was in Springfield, Massachusetts. And it was fairly recently I was actually thinking of calling them and see how how that goes. So there's actually frameworks and structures and decision trees and like we can do this, but it's just going to take a lot of intestinal fortitude. And I think I think the board has to,  kind of really get behind this and start messaging in a positive way.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think leadership really has to get behind this and messaging in a positive way, and we have to get, leaders in our schools, such as our principles, starting to

[12005-136] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair - runs the meeting from the superintenden | 2021-11-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: this. And it doesn't do it. It has to be a restructuring, rebuilding of a culture. And just almost starting anew. And there's, there's a lot of evidence to support this, and I hope we can get behind it and, and start messaging it better.
TEXT> Steve, I just want to piggyback on Heather's thought, and then I'll let you jump in. One of the things that, the state's commitment to this, when we went to competency based and I was there at Stevens when we when we started this, and the whole purpose behind that was was consistency. There were everybody had common assessments and everybody had common learning targets. And we had teachers that were teaching similar courses or the same courses, getting together regularly to talk about pacing, common assessments, student achievement, and all of these pieces that are so important to having a consistent approaches. Heather talked about. The problem is when you've got, first grade teachers in three different schools and second grade teachers in three different schools, and I use those grades specifically because,  I think the research will show that those are two of the most critical grades that there are. And to have a consistent approach to to learning assessments and interventions consistent for everybody. And so when teachers in the sixth grade receive kids, they won't know which school. Right now, I think they probably know which school they came from or which teachers they even had based on where they are in their achievement. And as Heather suggests, this really,  neutralizes that effect because you've got strong teachers working with people who are less strong and,  and sharing strategies and sharing assessments in their professional knowledge.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So there is, a great opportunity. I think, from a pedagogical point of view, I think there are other issues that I'm less thrilled about, but I but I do

[12005-141] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-11-03
PREV> Steven Horsky: is, is that my consensus of what I'm what I'm hearing is, is that it doesn't sound necessarily like we have a plan. Now, I know we're vetting stuff to develop the plan, but just right there, looking quickly, I can see a quick benefit.
TEXT> As much as I understand people aren't happy about the community school aspect of it, at the end of the day, do they want their children to get a better quality education or are they concerned what what school it is? At the end of the day, we have to answer for every student. Not just bluff, not just Dessner. We have to answer to the entire outcome. The success of a school board or a school district is measured based on all students, not one community over the other. So I think we need to really hunker down, devise that plan, figure out if we can do it at, equal to or less than. And I can already tell that would most likely be less than just by doing the restructuring. The biggest cost I could see is maybe adding a bus or two and some drivers there to make it really successful, but that's really where we need to focus the plan.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So and I just wanted to have so we're modeling all of them so far the logistics on the transportation are that so the the there's a lot of

[12005-150] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member - cluster also carries the clerk's roll  | 2021-11-03
PREV> Nicholas Stone: think two Heather's point is, you know, if you want to change the culture, I think that you should take a, you know, aggressive look at that and really kind of go for it when you're wanting to make a change like that. Myself personally.
TEXT> I just want to touch on the neighborhood school issue, which. I and. There was a lot of mention at the forum about the neighborhood school feel and,  that the destruction of the neighborhood school would have negative consequences academically or socially. So I took this seriously, and I kind of looked up what happened when the neighborhood schools were broken down. And you're 100% right when people say the destruction of neighborhood schools is not a great idea, that's not what we're dealing with. When you look at the data, they're talking about neighborhood schools that are like 20,000 students large, like we're talking about large neighborhood schools that  they tried to integrate into larger schools for either cost savings or for integration of socioeconomic  students, you know, to benefit students socioeconomically. And so they. Completely disrupt, kind of destroyed the fabric of that community. We are still a community. We're we're Claremont. We're we're little the you know, that's not what's going on here. We're actually just taking geographic schools and turning them into a community school. Right now we have little tiny pockets of geography and that's it.  Another question. So the data does support that. You support neighborhood schools. But that's not where we're actually doing. We're not we're not combining two different or three different districts or fracturing a whole community socially. And then  there was a  frequent or concerns about the transitions between schools. So again, I looked at kids in transitioning. And so.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The thing that piece that was missing. So when you go and look at data and research about frequent transitioning, really it's when kids move. So when a child's household

[12005-151] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member - cluster also carries the clerk's roll  | 2021-11-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: not where we're actually doing. We're not we're not combining two different or three different districts or fracturing a whole community socially. And then there was a frequent or concerns about the transitions between schools. So again, I looked at kids in transitioning. And so.
TEXT> The thing that piece that was missing. So when you go and look at data and research about frequent transitioning, really it's when kids move. So when a child's household leaves one district and goes to another district, so it's not there is there is  an adjustment period that comes with natural transitions between schools, in particular from fifth grade to like junior high. That's a particularly sensitive developmental stage. There's a fraught with that. But the idea that that this going from, you know, three schools is the same kind of transitional trauma that comes from when you take one kid and you take them out of their home and you put them with a completely different peer group, like they go in and there's all new faces. It's it's it's not the same. It's not the same thing. And in addition, streamlining this, this, this system like this means that a kid and particularly this would target  kids in lower socioeconomic brackets who tend to move a lot anyway, which is really disruptive for them. If they move within Claremont, they still stay with their great. No matter where they move, they won't be forced because of geography within our small community to move from bluff to desert. So in reality, when you're targeting the kids at most risk for transitional trauma, this system would actually be a benefit to them.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: It's I've been able to say, fortunately, that I've been able to experience every school in our district, and it was because I moved, my children have been literally in

[12005-152] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-11-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: No matter where they move, they won't be forced because of geography within our small community to move from bluff to desert. So in reality, when you're targeting the kids at most risk for transitional trauma, this system would actually be a benefit to them.
TEXT> It's I've been able to say, fortunately, that I've been able to experience every school in our district, and it was because I moved, my children have been literally in every school in the district due to the location of neighborhood, and it would have been a heck of a lot less disruptive to them if they were still with the same peer group. Because now, as they've entered middle school and high school, they have reunited with kids that they might have had in Maple or at bluff. So once again, another benefit to doing this, and really the one thing I want to say to the to the people with that concern, do they consider it at community center sports because we're co-mingling by the town, not by the area? Or are we going to basically want to say that we want to do the teams by the neighborhoods? That's essentially what they're asking for. The teams are done to make them level, and even they do drafts after they do testing to see where these children should be. And they mix from different communities. So it's not a problem at the community center doing sports.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: But now it's a problem when we're trying to create more stability with better performance at the end of the day. So, I mean, it's kind of an oxymoron for

[12005-153] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-11-03
PREV> Steven Horsky: what they're asking for. The teams are done to make them level, and even they do drafts after they do testing to see where these children should be. And they mix from different communities. So it's not a problem at the community center doing sports.
TEXT> But now it's a problem when we're trying to create more stability with better performance at the end of the day. So, I mean, it's kind of an oxymoron for lack of a better term, just because it's I get it, sports is only a little piece of time, but that's not the important piece of time as an education is. So I mean, just a point that I  think about in the back of my mind is that it's okay when we do it for the sports, but now we're going to put up a scope when we're trying to do it, where the most valuable to to your child is.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Okay.

[12005-156] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: SHSSRVC schedule time on learning. So just for a second, I want to talk about the, the ways that you're going to determine how, how staffing will be determined, what what you're looking at for making that determination of what you might need for staff.
TEXT> Yeah. So  I,  I had the,  the benefit actually I, I've been working with more with Charlie Gessner one on one since his retirement.  We, we had him come in and walk us through  a few data reports and also kind of the history of, of,  of the schedule and conversion and also to check kind of some of the numbers that I had had looked at in some of the data that Mary Ellen was pulling for achievement data. And just to make sure we're on the right, right path. And,  he, he was very helpful. And one of the things that he did,  I remember he he's been instrumental in being the scheduler for the high school for, for a long period of time. And, and, so he pulled if we were to convert it over to this model. What, what it might look like for numbers.  And how  we could what sections we would get. I also did, you know, extrapolate on that with, with the, the number of sections we could get and where we could get what interesting. Some of the points that he made up that I actually didn't speak to is that we have approximately 30% of our students who are  not succeeding in math and in English, who are actually already in a year long schedule.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Right? So they're taking one semester, they're either failing or they're in a two semester sequence. Thus, when you look at the full time equivalent of the FTE or the

[12005-160] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Steven Horsky: I believe that might have just answered my question because I so we're thinking an increase of staff of three teachers and we're thinking a science and math and an English teachers.
TEXT> What that was, that was the target because those are also. And when we get into  yeah, that that's what came up in the morning. But but based on what we, what we have so far and what the we also have we had split teachers. We have a  teacher who teaches in the science and math department and things that,  we can only have sections. Right. So right now there's only a teacher can only teach three classes at a at a time. There's only four, you know, for each semester or year long course. And if they had five the whole year, there's  close to the same hours, a little bit more, but more continuity with the same set of kids and the maturity of those kids over that course year, the bonding, relationship building and the like. So there's different models but that but that, that's that's why we do think and we also know that there's some courses in staff that haven't filled,  that, that we, we would be looking at what's running and what's not. Do we need everything.  You know, so many entry sections of math, like when you review what we offer as a profile, there's a response to some of,  I want to I don't want to say this like it's a beating up on it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But if people haven't been successful in certain courses, particularly core courses, and they struggle to even graduate, and we know of the recent graduation rates and impacts to that.

[12005-176] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member | 2021-11-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Nicholas next.
TEXT> So I'm going to echo  Steve's point a little bit, to an extent, I think that when we're scheduling stuff like that and as you said, I think it was,  really our numbers based upon how many kids we sent in Newport versus how many come here. I think it's kind of the bigger topic here.  I think that our schedule should be, you know, our students first, no matter what. It's, you know, if it doesn't work out, you know, it doesn't work out, you know, it is what it is. But I can speak from my recent experience from Stevens is scheduling was always a you know, it changed probably once a year for 4 to 5 years straight.  And I, you know, my freshman year, I took German one first semester, and then due to some science courses, I had to take,  science next semester. So I had to wait till my senior year to take German two, which was in fact very difficult. So that would, that's one big fan of the schedule for the year long, because that eliminates that from happening.  Because that was a huge,  disadvantage for me for my senior year to, you know, try and get state scholars for that,  one year of German.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: Yeah. And with Newport, it's, it's tough because, you know, tech centers are great. You know, even our facilities phenomenal. Like that stuff too. But like Steve said, you know,

[12005-199] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Petrin: move on with this building on our own? Because I'm concerned that we're going to roll into a new agreement just because we don't have the answer how to do it ourselves or how to, you know, how to not carry on with the agreement.
TEXT> We still have many, you know,  by the spring to, to sign. So we there's, there's applying funds to build on which I don't think we're there obviously  and  or to add programs or wings or whether that that's one aspect. The other is the continuation of this. And this is, this is the presentation to talk about that. We still have months to do that. And I and I, I do think, a we have to get all those answers and  I can. We'll obviously we'll have particularly Alex ahead point to get all the answers. But it's what the alternatives are. Right. So we're talking about a lot of alternatives about restructuring and other types of aspects and courses  in in I think we need to present those. So I don't think it's the case that we would stop sending our kids to Newport to finish out. And I don't want to alarm folks at home if they're already in. And I don't think it's the case that we wouldn't, it would probably be  at least a one year or a two year phase out. When you go into that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's pretty complicated. That's usually standard. And I also liken it to the, the tuition agreement that we did with Goshen, where we're the anchor school. That doesn't mean we

[12005-217] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Petrin: Head his hand up.
TEXT> Yeah. Mike and I have talked about this greatly. I just want to say, if we're going to do anything with tech sector, I think the single greatest thing we could do would be to embed required credits into the tech courses. Lebanon does this. They've been doing it for years. You can take an electrical course up there, and you can also walk away with a math two credit, for instance. And right now the incentives for our kids to take the tech courses is, is not that they're going to work toward a diploma. In fact, it eats into their schedule, limits, their ability to take take courses if they want to, say, earn, you know, the the the high flier diploma. So, you know, again, this is predates Mike and Mary Ellen, but this work began with Christine Downing and it was plumbing for many years. Doug. Yeah. And we started to investigate that. And I don't know, I think if you were to embed credits, required credits in your tech courses, you're going to see your enrollments come up from Newport and other, you know, folks in the region.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And speaking from the long history.

[12005-224] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Joshua Lambert: Just going back to the schedule by itself. So just 11 years ago, it was semester long courses and like quarter long courses. So this schedule would be full year every course. No, no.
TEXT> So full full year, full year for the academic core. There would also be half year courses. So parallel to what quarter courses are now. But you also there are other things I will not belabor it, but you can also have other types of credits. Right. So there's other ways to get credits outside and there's other ways to  add credit value for see time if you need an additional lab and other types of things that when they're back that there's there's many other ways to get that. I think what has to be examined as a starting point, you do this when you create a,  a  high school in graduation requirements on  the like. You have to know exactly what your capacity is for teaching and times and meetings and all those other things and the values, and they need to correlate to what's required locally, statewide. I think it's incredibly admirable that we have so many of our students who go for the 27  credit diploma and all of these other things, but we want to make sure that we have enough.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: What's the what's the access point? Right. So basically anyone can get a 32 credit all the way at full capacity. Right. With but what's our capacity, what's our net.

[12005-225] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: they need to correlate to what's required locally, statewide. I think it's incredibly admirable that we have so many of our students who go for the 27 credit diploma and all of these other things, but we want to make sure that we have enough.
TEXT> What's the what's the access point? Right. So basically anyone can get a 32 credit all the way at full capacity. Right. With but what's our capacity, what's our net. And  and what's the average student get. That's what I love about the community college aspect is we have so many kids stories that you don't hear about where kids grind it out, and they almost have an associate's when they're coming out of there. And those stories need to be told more and we'll get those out. But I want to say, you know, 20 to 30% of our kids graduate with credit from that college. And we've looked at that preliminary data and it's it's just a great underused resource in the area. And that's but okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Moving to subcommittee reports. We are against the custodians of maintenance workers. We've met with them. We have not met with them since we established ground rules, I think. Yeah,

[12005-404] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: so, for, for, for students five, five years and older, 5 to 11, that range. We know that's happening and we feel and I can say it that, you know, as a obviously as a superintendent of the district and we do recommend that vaccination.
TEXT> I also understand the the freedom in how people feel about vaccinations and rights and things like that and all of that.  And I support the tough decision to do that. What I can say and, and I told you that I'm in  frequent discussions with other area  schools and with our,  and I know our numbers and our numbers are parallel to other schools where all of the students who have been out okay on quarantines and things like that in our district in in area contiguous town districts, all of the kids who've been out have been unvaccinated students from who are in on vaccinated houses. So the the predominant numbers of that, that's what it is. So that's what this is about. And I will say this is a a great family have rule following. Can they they want that clarity in talking to  again talk to the rocker and other practitioners. The good thing which I, I didn't have the also the website has been down, if you've noticed the matrix, it was down for about eight days, and I wanted to show that we're coming down in Sullivan County, like, remarkably, from where we were  just the 7 or 8 days ago as well. So that stuff is going our way. The cases are down in Clermont.  Bye bye. I think there a 30 or 40. I didn't.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: See it, but it.

[12033-14] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-11-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah, yeah. It's fine. We'll get them next time on the superintendent report. So,
TEXT> Thank you guys. So, the focus of the of the report is particularly highlighting some of the work that we're doing and focusing on student outcomes. We prepared a bunch of data for the retreat recently, and  I thought  we had a we had a great retreat in, in Claremont, and we have some other focus points as well that  are happening up at unity in some of the curriculum work that,  Doctor Janeiro is doing with, with her team, with all the principals on a regular basis. And  it's really taking off  the strategic plan as you,  as you see it up here in this slide, we're talking about  more time on learning. And that was constituted in two ways. One, trying to add another grade configuration when we had a restructuring  proposal  in Claremont that that restructuring we did table that for those at home viewing. You may have read read about that that it's not  the board felt it's not the time  to do that. Right now. We're still looking at aligning the schedules in the middle school, high school, Stevens High School, in the Tech Center, and also looking at some offerings at our River Valley Community College and other types of things that are that are going well that we'll talk about.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But the focus of our work so far has been to, you know, Doctor Janeiro talk about that as well, to kind of take a look at where we are.

[12033-21] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-11-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: SATs. Very similar. But this next slide I'd like to talk about a little bit more as a jumping off point. But there are things that in reasons why we're looking at the middle school schedule, the Stevens High School schedule, and the tech center.
TEXT> And that is to try to,  create more opportunities for our students and to dig into the profiles of the students that we already know who have graduated, and the upper right hand corner of this slide, I had  permission to to share the transcript. We had a student last year, and we have students in in recent years who are very successful taking  in partnerships  with the community college. This one one student graduated from Stevens High last year and almost had an associate's degree,  fulfilled all kinds of electives. We also have,  many of our courses in memorandum of understanding  and that  if you take a class either,  you know, composition, accounting, psychology, at least 5 or 6 classes at Stevens High School, you can get college credit  at the community college. And the reason I say that compared to the Advanced Placement  courses, this is that students. Transcript.  We have permission to show it,  but you can see all of the students started taking college courses freshman and sophomore year all the way through.  Took a little bit of everything from nursing, programs as well as computer programing and the like,  you know, very ambitious student,  just  exactly what you like to see someone really applying themselves, putting, putting it out there.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And so it made me think and dig into the data a little bit to see if we had more students like that, or if this was just a far

[12033-23] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-11-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: continue that conversation. But the driver for that conversation was to to maximize all the things that we have in the tech center to try to get the as in Newport success, where they had their middle school accessing the tech center during the day.
TEXT> It's a different layout, different campus, but the same concepts. That's what we're talking about in our in our board meetings  and in the retreat as well. So those are all the offerings that we've had for years. In the  and this is  the clips from the region ten meeting  that we had, you can see some of the historical numbers in programs that we,  that we have. They're putting they're trying to build a new  addition in Newport. They've, they've  worn that out down there. And they have our was exciting to see that programs that they have, we're still considering what we're going to do and which programs we're going to run,  here. So,  the next slides are the schedules themselves that we're talking about and trying to unify those  schedules. This this is what I wanted to show, though I pulled this earlier today. So in 2020, we had  26 students, took 30 AP tests, and 11 of the students had qualifying scores of a three, 4 or 5 five being the highest in any college. Just about,  in most state schools, even  private schools, you can get college credit for that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And then you compare that to the running start courses that we had, where I pulled the data of the students who could have had the the. Absolutely. If you

[12033-24] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-11-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we had 26 students, took 30 AP tests, and 11 of the students had qualifying scores of a three, 4 or 5 five being the highest in any college. Just about, in most state schools, even private schools, you can get college credit for that.
TEXT> And then you compare that to the running start courses that we had, where I pulled the data of the students who could have had the the. Absolutely. If you have the passing score at at Stevens and you can also get college credit, and that's what we're meeting with  the folks over at River Valley right now and seeing how we can expand that in. But that's what happened last year. So 125 students  earned college credit in some, some more than one, you know, credit. So,  but it was a really successful. And that's been happening for years. So if you look at the number of front over the, over the last  all those years and you have a five year swing there, there were 706 passing grades that could have earned college credit. So  in many of those did. And then what we're going to try to do as a professional learning community in the guidance department and working with River Valley to see how we can expand that, advertise it a little bit more, and try to have students who want to take that advantage of that through that. They've also offered to have some  camps,  actually, and over  February and  April vacation, actually having robotics camps and things like that for eighth graders or middle school, any middle school student or any high school student.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So they've been great partners. So the last kind of Debbie Downer that I, we tried not to put in Covid information, but I just want to say as a,

[12056-16] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-12-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: see, beginning last week, we had we still had a spike. These are all the kind of the looking at, it's hard to find a pattern in that. I tried to to show that sometimes we're coming back from a vacation or things like that.
TEXT> You see that? Because kids have been away.  But  we had the pleasure of Sullivan County of being in the New York Times watch list of one of the highest percentages of change over the last week.  And  it's high. All right. So that's New Hampshire at 67. And then you see,  Sullivan County is severe at 112 ahead of everyone for the for that rate. The good news is we were up over 200 cases immediately in Claremont. And now we're back down to 147 or something like that. So it is coming back down.  It's above the highest spike on the first wave or second wave, forget what it was, but it's still, you know, we're getting through it. I was  spoke to a reporter today. They were asking about pivoting to remote and things like that. And we we haven't seen the effects in the classrooms themselves. We've been up and down with, with some days, but nothing that's stopping the education of  our students. And I  really want to thank the parents, staff and everyone for sticking to the protocols and and particularly the kids for,  for, for just complying.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we're getting through it. One day. Okay, one fine day, it'll be over. Okay. Hopefully so. And then these are, these are just some of the other transmission. And

[12056-21] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-12-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: is, I almost think that we've wiped out the races that we gave our teachers. And I'm a little concerned that we're not going to be competitive enough to attract the administrators that we're looking for, and I don't know how we can address that.
TEXT> Yeah. So  the first question, so we have put together  a bunch of  guides. Mary Ellen in particular has gathered some great material for that visioning of what what we want for our principal. Obviously, we want, you know, scholarship, leadership and all of those things. But I think it's really important to hear exactly from the community as well. Exactly what what they are looking for. And,  and how we have a bunch of tried and true metrics to, to measure all of those things.  And we're going to be sharing that as well. We'll share that with the board  as it comes up. But,  we're looking for leaders who are sensitive to the needs of all learners  and also  that have been in the classroom, have some administrative experience and have empathy. I think in general, I know I'm just putting out some of the other ones.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Your collaboration. Sure.

[12056-30] Unidentified | Unidentified - SAU 6 administrator speaking on academic initiatives an | 2021-12-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: is a different case, but at the high school, I think if we're doing this for for sports, we need to make sure we're kind of following that route for the other things. Band, choir, drama and make sure those things are still going on.
TEXT> I think there's a plan for. The middle school performances. They've figured out a way to do the middle school performances, the high school performances, and then the high school, performing for the elementary schools. I believe there's already a schedule for bringing the kids over.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Christmas concert.

[12056-32] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2021-12-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Christmas concert.
TEXT> I just feel like I have to keep saying it because because sports teams have that push behind them and you get the pitchforks, forks and torches from the sports, you know, if it doesn't happen. So I feel like I need to keep, you know, not that not that you're not doing that, but I need I want to keep saying it. So it's heard that that these kids deserve the same, as sports or other things programs going on in the school.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And, and one piece I didn't highlight is, it made me just think of it right now is that even though the seating is limited, they're going to broadcast. So

[12115-29] Mary Burke | Public commenter, Ward 2 (parent of a CMS basketball player) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you.
TEXT> My vaccinated husband tested positive for Covid, and it's come to my attention that our student that attends CMS has remained Covid negative the entire time and was termed Covid positive in regards to the so-called basketball cluster on the CMS boys team. It's not here. Say that he was included in this positive count. I have confirmed with staff that he is considered positive because he is unvaccinated with a household contact. Okay, I was referred to the district's head nurse, Veronica, for clarification on this matter. This morning I tried to get clarification on how a student that is not positive and has not been at basketball could possibly be part of this cluster. The district nurse could not give any rational explanation, and said it was the information given to her about positive cases. She stated there was enough positives to shut it down. I told her my son was somehow counted as positive in this and that is not accurate. I pressed the question of how that is possible and she hung up on me after telling me that she is not doing this and I can call my competitor. Two years into this pandemic, and I have a real issue with how this is being handled, especially on the brink of a surge in cases.
NEXT> Mary Burke: Our children have lost out on so much and will continue to lose out if people don't speak up. A case cluster comes from a common source, and I can

[12115-30] Mary Burke | Public commenter, Ward 2 (parent of a CMS basketball player) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Mary Burke: hung up on me after telling me that she is not doing this and I can call my competitor. Two years into this pandemic, and I have a real issue with how this is being handled, especially on the brink of a surge in cases.
TEXT> Our children have lost out on so much and will continue to lose out if people don't speak up. A case cluster comes from a common source, and I can only speak to my child in particular, since I don't know the exact details of the other two children that were counted. Again, my child is not positive and has not been at basketball, so he should not be included in a case count for the purpose of halting basketball. So I have come to the board tonight for some clarification, and the questions I have are obviously the questions that Shawn has. If a child has not attended basketball over vacation, why would they be included in the count? Our children with a positive case at home counted as positive, when in fact they are negative. And number three,  what are the guidelines for being considered a cluster and who is responsible for keeping track of this? And in conclusion, as it stands now, our healthy child is not allowed back at school until the 10th. His father has been out of quarantine. Per the CDC guidelines. He has only received social studies assignments through his Google Classroom, and this is the only teacher who has supplied assignments all week. This is not sustainable. It's not.
NEXT> Mary Burke: You the district is going to get behind at this point. All these children that are being quarantined, that are healthy, it's just it's not sustainable. This is all because

[12115-31] Mary Burke | Public commenter, Ward 2 (parent of a CMS basketball player) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Mary Burke: at school until the 10th. His father has been out of quarantine. Per the CDC guidelines. He has only received social studies assignments through his Google Classroom, and this is the only teacher who has supplied assignments all week. This is not sustainable. It's not.
TEXT> You the district is going to get behind at this point. All these children that are being quarantined, that are healthy, it's just it's not sustainable. This is all because he is not vaccinated and this in this high spread it's going to be an issue. The vaccinated are spreading it just as well. It is up to parents who decide the risk and benefit for vaccination. And I'll go over a little Covid statistics for New Hampshire 0 to 9 cases. There's been 19,209. There's been no point zero deaths in that age group. 10 to 19, 29,234 0.0 deaths in New Hampshire. I understand the vaccine works. We are vaccinated for our age group. I think everybody that is high risk should be vaccinated. My children have already had Covid in the past. They have not at this time. They need to get there and get get some healthy immune system going. They need to live with this for the rest of their life. I encourage the board to look at things rationally and adopt fair policies. Our children deserve it and we need to follow policies accurately as well. Thank you. It's a little nervous here.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Any other citizens?

[12115-33] Veronica | District nurse coordinator, SAU 6 (first name only; surname garbled by | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Any other citizens?
TEXT> So I'm coming up here not only as a citizen but also as an employee of Sussex, because honestly, this was a little bit misrepresented. This morning Mr. Moran called me and started screaming at me, didn't and he. I'm sorry, but is also a fellow employee of saw six as a coach representing our children. There was not a conversation. There was yelling at me. There was not any way that I could even have a rational conversation with him today. And anybody who knows me, I'm incredibly rational. This what we've been saying to people regarding Covid has been the same thing over and over again. I can repeat it to you. For him in my sleep, what happened was there's a lot of also information that I'm not privy to share with the general public. This is personal information. I contact the state, and the state determines whether or not we have a cluster. I also, I have to share with you that Miss Burke also attacked me, yelling and screaming at me, calling me a liar without letting me finish. Nobody classified her son as being positive. He's been classified as a household exposure because he has a family member who tested positive.
NEXT> Veronica: That is why he is not part of it. So our understanding with the information that I have is that I have three basketball players, whether or not they were

[12115-34] Veronica | District nurse coordinator, SAU 6 (first name only; surname garbled by | 2022-01-05
PREV> Veronica: share with you that Miss Burke also attacked me, yelling and screaming at me, calling me a liar without letting me finish. Nobody classified her son as being positive. He's been classified as a household exposure because he has a family member who tested positive.
TEXT> That is why he is not part of it. So our understanding with the information that I have is that I have three basketball players, whether or not they were together or not. My understanding was they did practice over vacation. Three constitutes a cluster. There are a group that come together and play together that is a cluster. So what we've asked is that they they have been shut down for ten days. I've asked them that way if anybody else who's been exposed, we know if they test positive. I actually have another student who plays on that same team who was sent home sick today on the protocol. So this may turn into a little bit more than just what's happening. Doing my homework. I'm not responsible for knowing what's going on in the community with these families, or who went to whose house and who went to California and who went here. I'm responsible for the children in our buildings who are playing these sports, who are testing positive, who are exposed to people who are testing positive. We are following the state recommended guidelines, all of the guidelines and everything that we are following you all have had access to, and I've given it all to you. And I think it's been very clear what we are doing and how we are following things.
NEXT> Veronica: So I just want to, you know, just share that, because I feel like at this point I'm being defamed and I don't appreciate that.

[12115-54] Sean Morin | Public commenter, CMS boys basketball coach and parent (ASR 'Sean Mori | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: mentioned that we're going to move the questions about the Covid stuff into a later topic. So I'd rather we follow those protocols if we could. I don't want to stop him from speaking, but he's already up there. I'm just saying that. Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> I got one more quick, quick thing  to kind of go against. What Miss  Veronica said is I was at work today in a common area, and in no way did I raise my voice or yell at her. I'm in an area where all these other people around, so that is 100% false. And two, I just want to bring up the fact that when a lot of these kids that are on our the team, that now that they shut down, those kids ride together to school, they ride on school busses, they're in classrooms together. These kids eat together. I was asking my son today and he said, they have a round table and  there's 8 or 10 kids sitting at it, and they're all within this far apart of each other. And those are the same kids that are shut down on that team, and yet they're still sitting together. Like I said, that close, all eating in close proximity. They go to each other's houses after school. They go to the community center. So shutting down is not going to eliminate is what I'm saying. And so there's got to be something there.  It just seems like we're overreaching when we're shutting down a program, when all the other things that go on at school still go on. So they're not eliminating the contact with the kids.
NEXT> Sean Morin: The kids still have their mask on and off in classrooms. They they work together in classrooms side by side. There's still plenty of interaction. So by taking away school

[12115-55] Sean Morin | Public commenter, CMS boys basketball coach and parent (ASR 'Sean Mori | 2022-01-05
PREV> Sean Morin: what I'm saying. And so there's got to be something there. It just seems like we're overreaching when we're shutting down a program, when all the other things that go on at school still go on. So they're not eliminating the contact with the kids.
TEXT> The kids still have their mask on and off in classrooms. They they work together in classrooms side by side. There's still plenty of interaction. So by taking away school sports, it's tough because I could tell you firsthand my son absolutely does not like school. He's not a fan of it. But what keeps him in school is the social interaction and getting to play sports. And because of it, he keeps his grades up. He made honor roll almost high honors. So by taking that stuff away, I just think it's doing a kids justice and it's just not good. And and like I said, you're not prohibiting them from interaction. So thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Any other citizens comments okay. Close citizens comments and move on to the superintendent's report.

[12115-63] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-01-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Those quick.
TEXT> Questions for the superintendent. Okay. Seeing none, we'll move along. Moving it to see our student rep. So we'll go to discussion action items.  Bluff donation of $500.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yes. So this, I'm sorry, I don't I don't think I have the accompanying check with that. I'm sorry, but I don't have it now. That was just a donation.

[12115-141] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents contract summari | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: So if you have questions, kind of. Yeah, just sing out.
TEXT> Top of the list debt service, which is down a little bit, which should be expected each year as we pay down principal, we pay a little bit less in interest. These are contractual with the New Hampshire Bond Bank on the what we have outstanding. There are  regular education I'm sorry within elementary wide we we break out in here the special education out of district. The out of district anticipated for next year is actually reducing slightly from 120,000 to 110,000. So the work taking place with programs within our schools is keeping our children within our district, within our schools, as opposed to heading out into some of these more expensive  out of district placements. Bluff school is down by about 134 000 year to year. There was one position based on the number of students that didn't need to be filled within the building. We also had a number of turnovers that happened to affect bluff, and those that are replacing those that left are at a lower cost, and those that came in also were at a lower health insurance. Now it happens to go that way, could go the other direction.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: But that's the primary reason for bluff on Maple. What we're looking at there is there really wasn't a lot of change in in the staffing and the makeup on

[12115-143] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents contract summari | 2022-01-05
PREV> Richard Seaman: that increase is what we're anticipating on out of district placements. The high school is down by 450 400 $0. The lion's share of that, actually, almost all of it is related to out of district placement at high school level is down by 610,000.
TEXT> Part of that 610 is then chewed back up with contractual increases, health increases, etc. but if you remember, last year we saw a pretty dramatic increase. Ben can certainly speak to it. Trying to continue to bring that down, handle our students within our own town and within our own school district. It's more appropriate, it's more beneficial to our budget and it's more beneficial to our community. The alternative program, the pride program is pretty well flat, related to  just just contractual increases, the decrease that we're seeing on sugar River Valley. There are four components to that. We have eliminated the nurse position and our carrying the nurse position out of the middle school, which had gone on for a number of years. And we're doing that again. We've eliminated the guidance counselor position that's being handled from the high school, as it had been done in the past. There was a reduction of a position that did business teaching, or  I think it's called business teaching. I'm sure that I'm not being not being complete on that. That position will not be replaced for next year. And we've reduced the director of the tech Center director position from a full time position to a half time position.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Then that results in the in the in the reductions that we're seeing there. Then the district wide to be allocated. It's going it's showing it's down by $312,000. And

[12115-282] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: Sort of like psychology and sociology.
TEXT> Yeah. So I had a question and it's, it's probably since I've been out of school for way, way too long, why I have this question.  But I, I was looking at how we do our 27 credit diploma,  another one that's lower than that, and then go right to the New Hampshire Standard of 20. The one thing that I that really caught my attention looking in is that the guy over here on the 20 credit gets six electives. The guy doing the accelerated gets the 27, has five electives based off how the structuring looks. And I think that in my opinion based we're trying to boost our scores and how our our youth are doing, and we're trying to get back to the basics. I would almost think we would want to require at least more foundational and fundamental courses and less electives in that 20,  the New Hampshire required diploma. I don't know how we go about that, because I know that we're looking at the required diploma, but that that just creates a question in my head based off trying to boost where we're trying to go with our with our students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Can I take I'm going to take a quick shot at that, because, I mean, having been there and done.

[12115-346] David Bailey | Stevens High School administrator and school safety liaison (introduce | 2022-01-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So so just how just how we drill recent recent drills where you have for planning fire drills, the required ones that we spoke about today at.
TEXT> The time. Right. So so we have several drills throughout the year. Our most recent one was the lockdown drill that just so happened to take place right before  that, that Friday, that  we wound up shutting the district down for the  sort of the TikTok video thing.  Usually we just we, we coordinate with  local police,  usually just the resource officer. This past time, we had several other officers that wanted to assist us and provide a any sort of other pointers on how we could do things better. So we did the lockdown drill.  We checked all the, the, the doors and things went well. And typically if we have a fire drill, we go across the street to across Broad Street and better weather, we'll go all the way down to Monadnock Park to  most of the kids will take attendance and bring the kids back once the all clear has happened. So we we do drills just like the state guidelines. We have about ten, ten a year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So you you have announced fire drills and you have unannounced fire drills. Drew.

[12115-355] David Bailey | Stevens High School administrator and school safety liaison (introduce | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: Don't know.
TEXT> The teachers typically don't know because we want it to be as genuine as possible, that, you know, it's not  taken lightly, that it's done seriously once the drill is complete.  Mrs. Barry did come on to the announcements, did announce to the kids that it that it was a drill. And that's typically what we did.  And that's how we've done it all three years that I've been part of Stephen's.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay, so what is feedback? So what I'm hearing is that maybe teachers weren't some new, you know, if you have newer teachers, maybe we need more education at the

[12115-364] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Josh' at [528]-[529] and [7 | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Josh, just being.
TEXT> In a current social climate where I don't think it's healthy or wise, it's not what was it? Not a drill. Because, I mean, growing up, we were always told when it was a drill and we always took it seriously. No one fooled around or anything, but I think, I don't think we need to be putting students or teachers in these like, panic modes just to practice. I mean, there's plenty of ways to practice without giving them heart attacks. It doesn't sound, I don't know. Growing up, we always knew when it was a drill. No one fooled around. If the kids fooled around, there were obviously consequences. But I mean, you're going to know one way or the other if it's not a drill. So like listening for Mike, it doesn't sound like it was very healthy students.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: At the end of the day, I.

[12115-371] Unidentified | Unidentified - district administrator citing three and a half decades  | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: it helps to alleviate fears. And I think that's might be one of the things that the saw is, is currently not doing that we could do better. And that's help in that training. That helps to kind of de-escalate so that it becomes autopilot.
TEXT> It becomes less scary to the kids because they because we don't want that sense of panic. If something does happen. You don't want that sense of panic where the kids. Oh my God, is this for real or not? They just automatically can assume, okay, we're drilling. We're out the door. This is what we do in this situation. This is what we do in that situation. And ultimately if we do this well and it's it works well, then then it's highly effective. And we we do exactly what we need to do, which is to get people to safety as quickly and responsibly and as we possibly can. So I, I hear what you're saying and I hear what you're saying, Steve, and I think that that the answer is somewhere in the middle when how we work it on our plans and how we work on our training. I think I fall more  in the middle of the road there. I think,  you know, if there's more practice, clearly practice drills. You know, we don't want to take up learning time. But if there's more practice drills. So the students and teachers know what the plan is.  I'm of the opinion that maybe the teachers should know that it's going to be a lockdown drill.
NEXT> Unidentified: So if you have a student that's high anxiety and having a hard time, that teacher can calm that students, the one particular student or two that you know, I'm

[12115-373] David Bailey | Stevens High School administrator and school safety liaison (introduce | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: anxiety and having a hard time, that teacher can calm that students, the one particular student or two that you know, I'm not sure. It's just I don't know what the solution is, but it I got some stories that didn't go well. So that's.
TEXT> If I can interject several. There are several students that we know we're hiring, and we did arrange that they were privy to this before happening. We made arrangements for them, but that's a very small percentage.  But it wasn't that we we didn't take some of those kids into consideration just just to put that out there, sir.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: So I have two things. So when there is a drill that is being done, who are the who knows for the, for the, for the high school, for example,

[12115-382] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: pulled him until he had a positive, positive or negative test, which came back negative, and he was able to return three days later. Following my understanding of the protocols that we've discussed at length as a board. So that's I can understand that concern.
TEXT> The the other piece of the puzzle was, is when I was trying to figure out what was going on with the cluster piece, basically, we had just come back from break.  So I was trying to figure out that piece of the puzzle, especially if you're claiming a cluster now that I that I've heard additional information, that there's possibly another student in the same team that creates a question, but based off what originally shut this basketball program down was called because of a cluster. But if one of the students whose parent is here telling us child has tested negative twice and not showing any symptoms, and it's based off household trace and he's unvaccinated, that does create the question.  I I've I'm not one for wearing a mask, as we all know. I don't like to I've done my vaccine. I've now had my Covid. Maybe I'll get a second dose of interest out of spite today. But,  the key thing is, is that our goal and our drive to to do this was to get back to normal as quickly as possible. Now, with that said, it and I and I'm not trying to discredit anything anybody's doing. I want to make that abundantly clear.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: If there is this type of confusion on how we got to the cluster and the state's telling us this, but the CDC guidelines says something completely different. And we've

[12115-383] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: is, is that our goal and our drive to to do this was to get back to normal as quickly as possible. Now, with that said, it and I and I'm not trying to discredit anything anybody's doing. I want to make that abundantly clear.
TEXT> If there is this type of confusion on how we got to the cluster and the state's telling us this, but the CDC guidelines says something completely different. And we've used the premise of we're using the state, we're using the CDC and every other discussion that we've had. Maybe we need to spend the time to clarify. But in my opinion, based off what I've read from CDC, it doesn't need cluster due to the the amount of based off the original facts of it being just the two students. And it's a great point that that Sean brought up. These kids are eating together still the the remainder of the team, we're not throwing the whole team out, but we have a child that's tested negative twice. That's not allowed here because of a parent who's now off quarantine. So I'm getting really confused because when I got off quarantine, obviously I had a couple delays of my children coming back because they ended up catching the Covid for me. So they ended up having to wait a couple extra days. But I just I guess there's just not clarity and I can understand the confusion from the parents side, the school side, the eight, the  department at this point to I can see kind of where it's at, but I know that we intentionally left some room because we don't want to tie anybody up. So that's the basis of this discussion is to create the clarity.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Until you want to talk.

[12115-400] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: really good job and its overall been kind of staying out of the schools for the most part compared to how it could be. Yeah, they're saying Omni Kron or whatever we want to call this variant this week and whatever one comes next week.
TEXT> They're saying this one's highly spreading, masks aren't going to help. So, I mean, we're masking kids right now to to something that may not be worthy. And it's it's not a debate about masks. It's a debate about how we're gonna continue to have these kids fall behind by missing school. That was a concern at the last presentation that I was noticing is how many additional people were on protocol while not having a test result understanding some of them were waiting for a test result. Some people refuse to get tested, and that's ten days off. So the it raises a lot of concerns to me at the educational level. And at some point, we're going to have to grab the bull by the horns, support and decide, educate these kids, aggressively, because they're falling behind every day, the ones that are missing. And sadly, I don't think it's because the parents aren't trying to do the right thing. And the community and the school, I think everybody's trying to do what they think is best. But, it's there's there's some kids getting some big deficits, my son being one of them. I mean, he's not performing anywhere near where he used to be. And he's two grade levels ahead of where he was when this all started. So I see some real concern on my end.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: How much time is he? Just out of curiosity.

[12115-402] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: How much time is he? Just out of curiosity.
TEXT> My son. Yeah. He's only missed three days. He hasn't been sick. But you start boiling down the online learning piece and just start stacking it up. Considerable amounts of time missed for these students of interaction. I mean, we're social beings. We've missed social interaction. When the kids were sitting at home trying to teach themselves with the aids of of their computers while the parents were still trying to get to work to pay their mortgage. You know, in an ideal society, you know, mom was still home. Dad was still out making the bacon to to pay the bills. But that's not the world we live in.  So it's a lot harder now for families to to be on top of it. I know that I do the best I can, but there's other families that are working two, three jobs, both parents, just to make ends meet and pay their bills, and we want to refer to them. So I mean, I think we're really at a at a point, as Heather said, and as you've said, that we can't do anything tonight, which was not the intent. The intent was to start the discussion again so that we could get proper facts, continue the guidance, really get information on our exact numbers, essentially would be my goal of how it's been through the schools.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So we have a full picture of what we're truly dealing with, to, to make a and then make a vote of what we're going to do.

[12115-436] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: state of New Hampshire and the state of New Hampshire is who is saying that this is a cluster. And this is our recommendation. We are following the recommendation that is coming from the state of what that is saying, that this is a cluster.
TEXT> What what would be good to look at in terms of the averages of clusters and other schools which anyone can see on the debt, the same dashboard that I show up there, you can do cross-sections, you can compare communities side by side. You can look at school clusters. You can look at the overall size of outbreaks in clusters, all that whatever floats your boat. Right. But in this case, and in other cases, we don't look at, I guess what, what I, what I this is and I say this as a  parent and a coach and all of those roles that I played both in youth leagues and in high school,  oftentimes there's the sense and I alluded to this, I forget exactly what we you know, we were on their briefly,  on the phone, but a lot of times there's a sense that because, you know, the kids and the parents and stuff like that, there can be more to the story that we may know that we can't reveal and all types of things.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I don't know the particulars of this, but I do know the consistency by which we've done all of these throughout, from the point of being directed the schools, the

[12115-452] Mary Burke | Public commenter, Ward 2 (parent of a CMS basketball player) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well, if the state classifies that as a cluster.
TEXT> I don't think the state would have. I think it was recorded as if  it says right on the toolkit that the nurses report what they think would be a cluster. And that should have never been reported as a cluster because those children were not. Some of these kids were not even there protected. So it wasn't gained from the same source. A cluster is a from the same source.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think the level of frustration that we're having here is that a bunch of people are working with discretion, and this includes the state. And so regardless of how

[12115-487] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: We're past that. All right. Sorry. Next time, Steve.
TEXT> One thing I would like is an update on the Puerto Rico trip, due to the fact of Covid being is rampant as it is.  I think we're kind of at a point where we need to start thinking about it. In fairness to the students and families as to how we're going to approach it. I have gotten,  word I don't know if it's 100% from another family that it may be required vaccination to go, which that now takes some other kids that were possibly going to go that are unvaccinated out. So I want to have a discussion on that and a full blown presentation because it was nonrefundable. I mean, it was 100% refundable based off Covid. And I want to make sure that if we make the changes, because basically, if we're in a trajectory down, if we're going to follow history and follow the science, it's going to be a problem come that break. And I was very cautious about it.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: February.

[12115-502] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Nick' at [580] and [623]) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: And I don't know the whys and wherefores of the refunds, I just understood today that Friday is an important deadline.
TEXT> So I kind of off topic, but we were talking about before,  when we're going to have the Covid discussion, I'd like to see what the status of  the online learning is, because we keep hearing parents say that there's not being sufficient work submitted to their kids. I'd like to see kind of I'm not trying to quantify that, but to see where we're at. Yeah, because that's been a common thing that we've been hearing throughout this entire thing, which, you know, that's kind of important, especially if we're going to be home. I'd rather at least have some sort of work rather than, you know, one class out of the four they take.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Hearing that a very important day is coming on being able to make a decision on the Puerto Rico trip being Friday. This board needs confirmation ASAP to the chair,

[12115-503] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Nicholas Stone: common thing that we've been hearing throughout this entire thing, which, you know, that's kind of important, especially if we're going to be home. I'd rather at least have some sort of work rather than, you know, one class out of the four they take.
TEXT> Hearing that a very important day is coming on being able to make a decision on the Puerto Rico trip being Friday.  This board needs confirmation ASAP to the chair, because if we have to make a decision based on, we feel comfortable sending the students still,  at this point and based off the vaccination mandate causing five of our students to not be able to go. Now, that kind of bothers me a little bit. Because the mandates, you know, people can get the job if they want, but we're trying to mandate something.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is that Puerto Rico's ruled on or on it?

[12115-520] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: take any of these shots that you need deer, malaria, dengue fever, whatever, you're not going. And so that was the choice we made. You were either going to get the shots and go, or you weren't going to get the shots and couldn't go.
TEXT> I think there's assumed risk when these kids signed up for the parents that there were that we were in the world of unknowns and they said.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah, I'm, I'm in agreement with with.

[12151-36] Kip Ryan | Public commenter, Ward 2 (uncertain - self-ID heard only as 'Ryan, als | 2022-01-18
PREV> Kip Ryan: it's my opinion that we need to double down. We need to be all in on the programs. We need to grow the programs we need to not keep whittling away until there's nothing left. You know, the owner of my company is right here.
TEXT> You know, I'm the I'm the sales manager. He's, you know, I'm in charge of  growing the company or, you know,  a part of growing the company. He's not going to cut me to a half time position and then say, well, we're still we're still going to grow the company. Okay. So I just feel like, you know, Alex, that the director position as a key player in growing  this needs to be dedicating full time effort. You know, we do live in a pretty poor community. The last time I checked, the median household income was about. I'll wrap it up. Median household income was about $47,000. This building, if done right, if marketed right between the school guidance principals, local business people,  really could be a way for some of these kids who, like one of my boys aren't likely going, you know, going to be looking at college in a career path like that to really start breaking some of the generational poverty that, you know, we we experience here in town. So I just ask that you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[12151-41] Bonnie Miles | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified at [78]); elected to the boa | 2022-01-18
PREV> Bonnie Miles: the president of Den Ron. Denman Plumbing and Heating and then Ron Hall Plumbing and Heating, with between 225 and 250 employees. I'm not going to do the mom thing, nothing like that. I just want to tell you that this is what started him.
TEXT> This is what got him going. And we and I see these classes disappearing. And what are we doing? I,  I know you guys have a hard job, I get it, but what are we doing here? We we have all these kids in this town who don't want to be stuck in fishing is. They're stuck in the book. They they got ideas and they want to work with their hands, and they want to excel that way. Why are we taking that away from them? We should be encouraging that more. Now, there was something that I did read and this is really interesting. I hope I don't run out of time. The center for Education Statistics showed that Korea and technical education encompasses nearly 94% of high school students and over 12 million post-secondary students. These numbers included high schools, career centers, community and technical colleges and foreign four universities, and more. And I also looked up. I found a couple more schools, Laconia Schools and Littleton Schools. They have an immense number of classes of things that you can take, and these people can excel  in that. So I'm hoping you consider I mean, yeah, I don't like my taxes to go up either. But you know what? If it's going to help the kids excel and bring more money into our community, then we, you know, this is the way it is, but we have to pay.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: But to lose, to lose all this and this beautiful building that we put money into. It's just I feel that it's just throwing it away, and, that's what I

[12151-42] Bonnie Miles | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified at [78]); elected to the boa | 2022-01-18
PREV> Bonnie Miles: mean, yeah, I don't like my taxes to go up either. But you know what? If it's going to help the kids excel and bring more money into our community, then we, you know, this is the way it is, but we have to pay.
TEXT> But to lose, to lose all this and this beautiful building that we put money into.  It's just I feel that it's just throwing it away, and,  that's what I guess I'm just going to be out of time anyway, so. But that's that's my feel how important this is and how I've seen how important it is. And I see all these empty rooms. And then we're losing a business instructor. Why are we doing that? We should be having more kids learning all this stuff. Some of these kids don't even know about financing and money, and this is where they're going to get it, because these kids aren't going to go to the big four year colleges. So it's it's it's I hope you ponder over this and and  bring it back and not diminish it over the years. Encourage it over the years, you know, even if it's 1 or 2 classes a year. But so we get up to where the intention was in the first place. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you Bob. Mr. Bean.

[12151-44] Matt Bean | Public commenter, Ward 1, paraprofessional (ASR 'Mr. Bean', 'Matt, bee | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you Bob. Mr. Bean.
TEXT> All right. Matt, been. Ward one. I would like to change the subject for a minute. It's come to my attention from the person directly impacted that one of the four positions in the district was the autism specialist.  I just want to express my concern because especially with the dropping numbers in people, kids going out of district in us saving money on that.  I just want to address my concern and what you would do,  to that,  I want to express my concern and what it would do to the to the to the students, because these kids who have autism, they need certain adaptations in certain and certain needs taking care of in order to get a solid education. The third thing is knowing this person personally. She is one of the hardest working people I've ever met. She was been in this district for 9 or 10 years. I think,  she's got a master's degree, she's working on her doctorate, and as a person that's going in, it has already have their associate's degree in social services and is going in that field and wants to work here in Claremont School District with these children to try to keep them from going out of district to save us money.
NEXT> Matt Bean: It doesn't make me feel so good that I have a future. So I just wanted to express my concern. I don't want to be a paraprofessional forever. That's what

[12151-47] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1; former Claremont School Board member (ASR 'J | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Mr. Bender.
TEXT> Hello, everyone. Jason. Ben Ward one. Since he brought up special ed, I had a couple of questions.  So based on the presentation I got,  I read an article in the paper a couple of weeks ago about the budget and said we were saving 500 and some odd thousand dollars on special ed costs.  It wasn't terribly specific about that. And, you know, over the last couple of years, obviously, we set up these programs to try to keep kids in district and  to sort of serve our kids at home.  So are we saying that all the savings that came in special ed was from those programs? Because I'd like to know, first of all, is there a metric in place so that we actually know that these programs are working? Have we set anything up? Do we know that yet?  I've been anxiously awaiting this for a couple of years, because I was one of the people standing up there selling everybody that this is what we needed to do to save our district money. I also understand there's a lot of other dynamics that come into play. For instance, we could have had a family that just moved out of district,  that that could do it right there.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I understand, but I was hoping that maybe you could tell me if that is indeed the case. And, and the taxpayers in general would, would know, perhaps, that some

[12151-58] Mimi Ryan | Public commenter, Ward 1, Stevens High School counselor (ASR 'Mimi Rya | 2022-01-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: No, I just want to make sure everybody before we kind of try to answer all the questions, make sure everybody has their. Okay. So we know. So maybe we can answer multiple questions all at once. There's.
TEXT> Hi everyone. Mimi Ryan's Ward one. I want to kind of  up on the autism specialist position.  As a school counselor at the high school, I work with that person constantly with students on her caseload.  If students,  you know, have a stumbling block in class or something happens, you know, she's kind of the first go to for those students, you know, what strategy can we use with her and a student to kind of make them have a successful day. And she is a strong advocate for her students. She goes to bat for her students.  And I guess I'm going to follow up with Matt said, I'm concerned and confused because we're saving all this money is not sending out a district. And she's a key part of that because she works K through 12 if I'm if I'm not mistaken. Right. So she works K through 12. We're saving all this money. What part of this am I missing? So I guess that's my main concern. I don't know what the other three positions are in the district. I don't know if I'd like to share those or not.  But I think that's kind of my main concern. Looking at it, I don't really understand it. So I guess more clarification on that would be good as well if we could get that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh, I'm sorry, I'm the last.

[12151-62] Jeanette Rourke | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jeanette. Rourke'; spelling uncertain) | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Okay. Jeanette.
TEXT> Hi. Jeanette. Rourke, Ward one.  I work very closely with the autism specialist. We do a lot of groups together.  What concerns me is she is the only autism specialist. And actually in the area. If you look, she's actually the only one that's actually around in the area meeting the needs of all these children. And,  the thing also worries me is she has covered a lot of different areas. She has helped children that aren't even on her caseload and supported them. That's saving money. She has helped K-2 when the teacher has been out. That's saving you money. And also she has worked tirelessly and all these areas and she continues to educate herself.  We want somebody like that in our district. Autism is not going away. Our percentages are going up. And if you look very closely, these kids who have autism need support and our groups have not gone down. In fact, we constantly ask ourselves, we can't have any more groups, but they would love us to. The teachers always ask for help, because kids with autism can be very tricky to work with. We love and support every single one of them, and I can tell you that her job is not just working with kids. She supports all the classroom teachers as well. So something to think about. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[12151-72] Whitney Skillen | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Whitney Skilling'); elected to the boar | 2022-01-18
PREV> Whitney Skillen: And I know that we need more tradespeople here, because I just moved here into a 70 year old house that needed roof repairs. The back porch was falling down, plumbing repairs, electric repairs, and every single tradesperson I called was over, overbooked and understaffed.
TEXT> Which means me personally, as a person who went to college and has a regular 9 to 5 computer job, I need my electricians to help me keep my lights on and my plumbers to keep my water running and my heat on, and the carpenters to help keep my porch from falling down, and all of these other tradespeople to help me keep my house standing, that I would be more than happy to pay fairly to do the job if they existed. I'm still on a waiting list to get the lights on back in my kitchen. Luckily there was an electrician on my street who got them on for me, but it's really hard to find people these days, and if we had more investment in these programs to train the kids who are really born to do this kind of stuff, it could really lead us in a long way. So I'm just wondering, with all these cuts we're making, all these numbers that are in these brackets. Was it ever considered to reallocate those funds into areas of need? Did you ask these individual schools what they need if their needs are being met, and if this money can be used in that way? Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Thank you. Renee.

[12151-80] Derek Ferland | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2022-01-18
PREV> Derek Ferland: Newport. I'm prepared to do all for Newport, which I think is a shame, and I think our community misses out because of the way the different programs are set up. So workforce and workforce development is the number one challenge for our local employers.
TEXT> And it's not just about the high school kids coming through this wonderful facility. I think it's underutilized. And I think we could be doing a lot more with the adult education as well. But it takes school board support to make that vision a reality.  And that starts with you, and I hope it starts with you reconsidering this budget to put the funding back so that we can move forward and take the next step of figuring out what that right size is. Every one of these wonderful careers through the trade programs, they're Amazon proof. They'll never be outsourced. You're not going to pick up a phone if you have a no heat call in the middle of January and get somebody from India that's going to help get your heat back on. So these careers are wonderful for our local employers, which in turn is great for our local community. They're lucrative and a great opportunity for a lot of the kids in this community.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[12151-83] Allen Damren | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Alan. Damron'); former Assistant Mayor | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Derek. Wait a second. Matt.
TEXT> Thank you. Alan. Damron, Ward one.  I I'm going to largely, I think, echo what's been presented to you throughout the evening with a number of comments from various speakers. When I arrived back here in Claremont, my hometown, back in 1995, this center was pretty. It's a vibrant place and had been a vibrant place for a number  since its opening earlier in that in that decade. I don't know what has happened to the decline that's gone on through the years. That's declined now to four, maybe five. But I think that's just wrong. Cutting the director's time to 50%. I believe does does a very big disservice to this building  and to this effort. Our community and our students are largely supportive. I think of what we can do in vocational education and what can be done with adult education. During my time in the  South Central Office. I know I made a reference to the then adult Ed director when she was trying to figure out exactly what kind of course, to be offering. Why don't you see what the fire department maybe has in mind for its beginning? Firefighters who have to become  certified, they have to become certified  EMTs.
NEXT> Allen Damren: Why don't you see if they need some help? And lo and behold, they did. The ambulance service joined in with that effort. That was an extremely popular offering in

[12151-103] John Hall | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified at [212]) | 2022-01-18
PREV> John Hall: of those, you know, that are needed throughout the, you know, throughout the community in the country. It's really probably Claremont's most underutilized resource. And you'll have community gatherings where we talk about how we're going to revitalize the community and get everything on track.
TEXT> And there's almost always a discussion about how we need more people in the trades, in our factories and our businesses, and how are we going to attract more people. Most of those people are here. They're students in our school system, and this is the facility that gets them to that step, that gets them to those businesses that need their services, and to cut a direct to half time to me, sends the wrong message. I don't understand that decision. It doesn't make sense to me. I don't think it makes sense to half the people in the room tonight. As far as the course offerings within the school system, you know, I don't I don't know why we don't have some of those courses still offered here. You know why we went from 11 down to four? But are we are we at all asking the kids at different stages in their career? What are they interested in becoming when they grow up? Because at some point they're going to get to the high school. And are we offering things here at the tech that fit their aspirations? Are we talking to our business leaders, or are we talking to the community to find out what their needs are  and how we can maybe tailor some services through our system here?
NEXT> John Hall: Because, yeah, the community funds it and I pay taxes here just like everybody else. But I would like to know that my taxes help provide an education that can

[12151-121] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (a commenter cites 'what Heather said' a | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: over here. So there were never that many. We started with seven and have some disappeared? Yes they have, and for various reasons, some dating back to when Mr. Damron was an administrator in the district. So, Heather, did you want to make some comments?
TEXT> Sure. I'm going to put my head on the chopping block here, I suppose. Or,  offer some clarification or vision. I think that the board has, I speak in part for myself, and I think a lot of board would concur. I don't know one member on this board who doesn't support the tech program, who doesn't support the trades, that does not want a robust offering for our students in this community or recognize it as more than a viable  option to make not only a living wage, but a wage that supports a family. My plumber is a is a graduate from this technical program, and I'm not giving anybody his number. He is my plumber. I'm still waiting for him to go. Jake Lapointe and he actually  represented us regionally in a skills assessment. So I am a huge advocate of of the trades. I do want to offer that perhaps there's been some misperception that the board is anti technical education.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And the article that was kind of sparked I think a lot of this in November of last year. Compared in contrast with what I think actually is occurring within

[12151-129] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (a commenter cites 'what Heather said' a | 2022-01-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: we did hear that we were going to have to do some expansion of the tech because our classes were busting at the seams, and that there was an opportunity for us to get state money, which I think one of our speakers actually mentioned.
TEXT> And why weren't we doing that? We didn't get a presentation on that, and it was actually suggested in that December 2019 meeting that we might want to even consider a state funded technical center being built on the property at Riverview Community College because of the possibilities of, you know, bringing students from one building to the next, and that, and the relationships that could be developed there. And so when, when I think the board is thinking about how we can provide tech opportunities to the students, it's not whether we need it, it's how we're going to provide it. And I think this was also mentioned by one of our speakers, is why are we not maximizing what we have in this community? We have up on the Hill lesson less than three miles away, that technical college is a gold mine of opportunity for our students that have not been, that has not been tapped into. And,  I've talked to Mr. Tempesta about this, and I think many of the board members as well, is why we're not maximizing the Running Start program and the Bridge to College program that's offered at the technical at the technical College. Now, when when I'm supporting that program, it doesn't necessarily mean that I'm supporting that kids continue to 2 to 4 year college, you know,  opportunities college,  traps.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: What I've read leads me to believe that, that in reality, the skill level positions are the positions that are most needed. And that means that you have to have

[12180-14] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: I mean that's before.
TEXT> Yeah I think that that's what I would suggest. So basically I, I have the presentation with other people's slides and it's too as part of my report. All right. So the, the the first  part of it, if you see the slides, the overall view of it is. So I'm going to go up to you for a second. So we're going right to discussion items. Or is this are are they one in the same. We're going right to the discussion item. So then they I have the items on this in order so that we don't go through the thing and then revisit it. Okay. We don't have a student report anyway so we can go right to the discussion action items then. Okay. Yep. All right. So the first the first one I would ask Mr..  Mr.. Mr.. Nestor and  he's not here. He's not here. Okay. All right. All right. Well, I can skip that as we wait for him and just go to the next one. So,  but sorry about that. So the first item that I had. Okay, we're focusing on on student outcomes. My eyes are terrible. Pardon me.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So the the first I just wanted to focus back to the strategic plan that we talked about in these slides are from November and also from the summer when

[12180-15] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: right. All right. Well, I can skip that as we wait for him and just go to the next one. So, but sorry about that. So the first item that I had. Okay, we're focusing on on student outcomes. My eyes are terrible. Pardon me.
TEXT> So the  the first I just wanted to  focus back to the strategic  plan that we talked about in  these slides are from November and also from the summer when we did forums talking about the schedule changes in the expectations and things like that.  The major strategic plan focus items for the next five years,  two of the biggest ones are time on learning and teaching and learning to improve  student achievement within the district. And three of those items are  involved, and I know that I also put out.  You may have seen it's also posted on the, on the website, kind of a,  a follow up from our last meeting about  our plan with the tech center. And these are the points that I'll continue to to follow up with those. All right. So our our role was to have more hours overall in all courses, but also particularly,  with a schedule  melding at the  middle school and high school  in the tech center  to increase the access to all courses for students and have more time. And I'll talk about that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Excuse me. So one of some of the areas and I tried to clarify this and have more input because people have asked questions about about our tech center, about

[12180-19] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: committee. You have a lot of things gained when you share staff. So, for example, what we looked at the past couple of years, if you had an algebra one, which is a really a gateway course in high school in math and Steam instruction.
TEXT> We may be able to have the the in the perfect world, you have algebra one in the eighth grade. That's the same as in  high school. You might be able to share the same teachers and staff, and there's a lot of, there's a lot of  strengthening of all programs that we can get that way, as  we will have the common schools and the programs, particularly if we look at new programs to put in when we peel back and look more closely at the region ten agreement, there may be other ways  to,  to focus on one thing that I don't think we've ever been satisfied. Most of our students who go to Newport, I think our most enroll are I know our most enrolled program is  the Health Science Technology program, and it would be great to offer a type of health or science or technology or a subset of that here as well. So all right, next slide that I have is  other things that we need to do to  more market.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And this is these are the same slides as November. We talked. We have students who have done very well. Many of our students proximately 1,520% of our students who

[12180-20] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Science Technology program, and it would be great to offer a type of health or science or technology or a subset of that here as well. So all right, next slide that I have is other things that we need to do to more market.
TEXT> And this is these are the same slides as November. We talked. We have students  who have done very well. Many of our students proximately  1,520% of our students who graduate from Stevens graduate with some type of college credit from the community college here we had a student. You can see her  transcript in the upper right. And I'm going to try to have her back and present and also work with students as they're enrolling. She  offered to do that. And she, she graduated with, I believe, almost a full  associate's degree. But she started in she was I think it was about five years ago. There was an eighth grade track all the all the way through,  with advanced math. And students  were on the college campus. And we've been talking to the community college to expand that, to work hand in hand with some of the  other Steam initiatives and also some of the,  courses here at the at the tech.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The next slide that I have is the we talked about the administrative, overhead as well in all the class. So, the reductions that we had here, I also put

[12180-23] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: meeting that there's a lot of, a lot of opportunity there as well. So this is something to I wanted to put this slide in there that not many people know about. And again, it is on us to put the word out there more.
TEXT> But when you look at the Advanced Placement  scores and things like that, where you're those who don't know,  Advanced Placement scores are graded on a one through five scale with three, three, 4 or 5, known as a qualifying score, where you get college credit nearly  everywhere in the country. You know, the same as Boston University as a,   a state school or or the like. What's interesting with our students that people  we don't do a good enough job putting it out there is those are the 2020 scores where we had 11 students, 26 took the test and we had 11 qualifying scores, but we had 125 students get actual college credit,  from running start in  composition, psych stats and other courses that we've had. We also have linkages  with the  tech center classes as well, Newport in the like, and we have had a great history of that where if basically if you take those elective classes, you get your your feet wet, particularly in the trades and other types of things,  you can you can be on your way to that health  science certificate and many other opportunities that we have. And again, that's something that we want to do a better job promoting. But  but it's out there. So.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And this is the schedule. And I'll just look at the three schedules just to get an idea of what we're talking about right now. You see the what's known

[12180-61] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: place the summer school or not. Summer school. The summer camps. Yeah. Which is a nice kind of feeder, but I think getting every eighth grader through this, whether it's one of their electives and they bounce, you know, through each program. But I just.
TEXT> One where we are with  summer planning in general and kind of the the Steam professional learning communities and other types of  programs and things that were going to be available for, we're hoping to do with the with the elementary summer school camp and also with the, you know, the middle and high offerings is to try to focus on. We have the, you know, the energy with the beautiful new steam lab over here that the students that we want to try to make that,  focus that way thematically.  And we, we, we feel  in fairly confident that we'll have another successful, summer experience all the way through, funded by the cares. You know, that's a great community value, but the kids really enjoy it. And that's that's what we'd like to do, try to have the middle school involved more with that. Extend that. And, yeah, I don't I don't want to get ahead in. But in terms of what we would do with this, with the committee all the way through, we have to cost and have ready for the what that adoption would look like the following year.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We could get components of it. I do think that there's, and we'll see how that goes. I don't want to get ahead of myself with that. But we have

[12180-66] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: if there's any openings you can put your kids into. But some of the courses, particularly the introductory courses, there are some that are absolutely you need the the low numbers, the machinery is dangerous. Scott Scott bulbs classes. It is a machine like atmosphere.
TEXT> Shop kids ramp up to that that safety level.  Some of the other ones, we might have a little bit more latitude. This is something we have to discuss with them about,  you know, who's who's,  we want to, I guess if we want to have feeder classes and we want to be able to max out what we have to offer here and get our kids through it so that they're staying here. A lot of the most of the Newport kids stay there because they're they're used to it earlier is my anecdotal  things that I'm, I'm hearing for folks. And I also know that,  it's only 15 or 20 minutes till you're on a bus every day doing it, hearing it from, from from some of our kids and other kids. But I don't know anything that gets them to, to to that we get more kids in. And I don't want to act like we don't have our students here. We do. But I think we could would ramp it up with a feeder.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I just want to clarify and follow up what what Heather just said. So it isn't the region ten that prevents us from having competing programing. It's the state. True.

[12180-72] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: forget is it was based more on enrollment numbers than budgetary cuts. And a lot of people want to think of the the school board trying to be the hack and slash and the tech center programs are what's been taken. That's not the case.
TEXT> When our scheduling doesn't allow  for it to be,  utilized by the surrounding communities in the region agreement that we're in, it makes it hard,  for a lack of better term, we've pretty much kind of had a prima donna atmosphere  when it comes to establishing working relationships with other districts to utilize this text center.  24 years ago, I attended this tech center as a Newport student. We were traveling over with sunup carries our students, and it's once again goes back to the reinventing the educational wheel,  with failed policies, you know, block scheduling changes and how those blocks align. Because I was a block scheduling student.  The in the competency based grading systems are just some examples of things where we've tried to reinvent the wheel that have kind of hindered things to grow,  in that we've lost revenues from the tuition students coming over here to take our programs. And there's been discussion of the going alone mentality. And if we choose to go there,  we do need to address the needs of our community directly, builds the appropriate partnerships with the community, and budget accordingly to fill that desire. There's one key thing. There's been mentions of this person offered this. This person offered that. Well, one thing they forget is, is that in order to be active in our youth and employed by the district, they have to pass background checks.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: And that's not always easy to do in the trades. I've come from the trades there. It's just not always an easy thing. So that kind of leads to the

[12180-73] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: that desire. There's one key thing. There's been mentions of this person offered this. This person offered that. Well, one thing they forget is, is that in order to be active in our youth and employed by the district, they have to pass background checks.
TEXT> And that's not always easy to do in the trades. I've come from the trades there. It's just not always an easy thing. So that kind of leads to the question,  has been in the region, can agreement hindered us or helped us? And  that's you know, I don't know. Has that been a  failing source for this tech center to be successful? It's hard to justify, as a board member, a program that has half as many courses as Newport at a full time position,  when they have their full time director. It's tough to to justify that to taxpayers. It's tough tough to to mentally justify it.  If if you've got half of the, the workflow compared to another center. So I understand where that budgeting proposal came from and I do  perspective, obviously, you know, we've seen the River Valley course offerings that may overlap with some of what we've offered here.  And there's an advantages to that partnership, such as being able to get apprenticeship instructional hours towards a trades license and or college credits. It seems like a no brainer to me that we utilize that to the best of our ability for our students.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: That's just some thoughts I've had on the sugar River tech piece. I don't know exactly where the breakdown was, but when I was here 24 years ago, this place

[12180-88] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: have a section one and a section two in a block schedule of our criminal Akram, people who, who, who go all the way through the feeders and everything in our and end up in, in the, the plumbing or in the machine tool classes.
TEXT> We can only net six of our kids right now per a strict interpretation of the region. Ten I don't know when the last time as we had a full six all the way through. I don't know that I haven't, you know, gone right down to, to when that was that, that that doesn't concern me as much. But I do wonder if, if, if we hit on all cylinders, if we have a feeder, if we have the kids fire up making stuff over there wanting to come in here. A perfect scenario would be if we have more demand and we have to revisit that. And just like we had a swelling of the culinary program when when the  baking classes and other things,  left, left Stevens High School, we had  we had to expand and even have a  chef there handle some of the flow in the in all the students that went in there. Hopefully that that's what we're going to be seeing in the next couple of years. So that's where we want to go. Thank you. Positive vibes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I don't want to transition to well, back to pre-K or preschool without leaving a lot of citizens here. So I want to give people an opportunity to speak, if

[12180-90] Josh | Public commenter, Ward 3 (first name only on the record; ASR 'Joshua.  | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: I don't want to transition to well, back to pre-K or preschool without leaving a lot of citizens here. So I want to give people an opportunity to speak, if they like, to your name and board, please. Hi, Joshua. Race one three.
TEXT> Good evening, and thank you for that presentation. And thank you for the follow up questions about the guidance counselor and about the nurse.  So in that slide, though, we got sort of an operational and financial explanation for what was going on. But I loved your first slide. It said student outcomes, but I didn't hear much about the students and student outcomes. And I totally agree that that is exactly what we should be discussing. And sure, so glad that everyone's here to to because they're concerned about student outcomes too. And students at home. I wish you were here so you could tell us what's going on in your experience in the schools and what your outcomes actually are. So I'd like to invite all of the students to come to the next school board meeting on the ninth to tell us,  but for now, I'd really like to know what are the improved student outcomes that students should expect by eliminating a nurse position. Because as you mentioned, there are some dangerous equipment at this building, and so having a full time nurse seems to make sense to me.  Likewise, how does eliminating the guidance counselor improve student outcomes? You said that there was actually very successful in that. We're going to see movement into the technical school because of the guidance counselor, and that would be very useful to coordinate with sugar River.
NEXT> Josh: So can you tell me sort of what the student outcomes you expect to see? Sure. That would benefit by eliminating the nurse and the guidance counselor.

[12180-91] Josh | Public commenter, Ward 3 (first name only on the record; ASR 'Joshua.  | 2022-02-02
PREV> Josh: Likewise, how does eliminating the guidance counselor improve student outcomes? You said that there was actually very successful in that. We're going to see movement into the technical school because of the guidance counselor, and that would be very useful to coordinate with sugar River.
TEXT> So can you tell me sort of what the student outcomes you expect to see? Sure. That would benefit by eliminating the nurse and the guidance counselor.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So thank you. Yeah. Okay. So in terms of the the achievement outcomes, I think that's more that what we're what we were talking about through the through the coursework

[12180-95] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Nick' at [521]; [184]-[185]  | 2022-02-02
PREV> Josh: budget. And currently the proposed budget is comes in less than what we're spending now. So it seems like there would be room and it would be beneficial to have those positions. So I'm not sure still how eliminating it helps in the long term.
TEXT> I can speak on the student outcome  I graduated in 2018 from. I took both the cutting room and to. I think a big thing here is that I don't think we're discrediting the high school guidance counselors because they're they're phenomenal.  What? I wanted to start taking a tech course. They were more than supportive, but I think it's kind of long lines of, like you said, was that it's more needs to come from the top level, because I think the tech nowadays is kind of thought of, you know, if you don't learn well in the classroom and hands on stuff. But I think if we look at it at a different approach with kind of focused on having it open to all students for whether it be accounting, whether it be plumbing, I think the guide that we have, I believe two thirds of the way there, when I was there, were still there. They're more than supportive with taking tech classes and putting those in your schedule, even with the four blocks.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. I think this might be helpful to. So we were given a copy of the, Perkins grant application. So this application outlines how the director is planning to spend

[12180-96] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Nicholas Stone: whether it be plumbing, I think the guide that we have, I believe two thirds of the way there, when I was there, were still there. They're more than supportive with taking tech classes and putting those in your schedule, even with the four blocks.
TEXT> Okay. I think this might be helpful to. So we were given  a copy of the, Perkins grant application. So  this application outlines how the director is planning to spend the Perkins money to meet and address some of those needs and concerns that you are pointing to. And I can I don't know how much time we want to dedicate to this, but I can highlight some of the key areas that were indicated in the Perkins Grant. So,  you're worried about or wondering about, provide career exploration and career development coursework, activities or services? This in part is it's labeled the school counseling office. So it says here we will coordinate with the high school school counseling office to broaden our career explorations development programs. We will contract with a consultant to help develop and implement a program that meets the needs of our students in the demands of the using the Perkins money to do that. So we're going to hire a consultant to do that. So I think that's. Does that help at all with, with that piece is that we have a well, there's.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: Something.

[12180-114] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Nicholas Stone: It or.
TEXT> I'll take a stab at this one.  The reason being is, is that we're looking at an annual budget,  currently based off the information waiting on the consultants to, to respond and kind of help guide that the immediate gratification isn't going to happen. We have everybody thinking that it's going to be instant gratification. What we're trying to do is take a building that's basically been cut in half from when I was here and trying to grow it. Well, we can throw as much money at that problem as you want, but if we don't do it wisely to build the program the correct way, get the right programs in here and use the grant funding and state funding that's available to the district. We're doing a disservice to our students. So it's a one year budget. And currently the way it's set up and based off of what's taking the time, we don't have the ability to utilize a full time position. When you have Newport with eight courses in US with four.
NEXT> Unidentified: All right. Could you could you explain you said something about background checks for tech students so I, we could barely hear you back there.

[12180-139] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Excuse me, I'm just.
TEXT> Up my glasses.  The we the recommendation is, is, is that we think we could get by with the proposed reduction,  retain the typical peer model reduced to three teachers and focus on the restructuring plan towards  for typical models and universal pre-K for all students. There's too much risk programmatically and financially to revert back to a  substantially separate model. That was that's kind of the recommendation from the admin team and and  I believe from the board. But I also think that we are going to hear about the history of, of the the timeline of the position.  Some of the obstacles with the Department of Education and, and oversight, kind of the evolving of how this was housed previously and Disney  elementary schools obsessively Stanford separate and  in the like. So the next slide that you see. Mr. Nester, if you don't know if you can see that.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, yeah, I. Have it in front of me. Oh, great. Great. Yeah.

[12180-150] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Ben Nester: That was right around the same time the early childhood program was defunct, and moved out of the tech center. It was a perfect spot because it was set up for little kids, you know, then 17 through 19, was really the big implementation year.
TEXT> Pre-K got very big very quickly.  There were three teachers, three classrooms. There was a pre-K director, Diane Edwards. At the time. There was a pre  there was a special ed coordinator for pre-K, a full time admin assistant, and then ancillary services related service folks, speech, OT and then and then paras, depending on the needs of the kids. Those are always fluid and kind of a  moving target. Then we get to 1920 administration at the time. Look at this in coordination with the school board. And we we we took we made two big cuts from pre-K at that time. We removed the director position,  and we removed the full time administrative assistant from pre-K. The special ed coordinator became the pre-K coordinator, and she  is still the pre-K coordinator paid. And she's here tonight and can give more detail. If there's  granular questions,  then we last year, 2021, we we had three special educators at bluff. At the time, population was dropping. Their population at the pre-K level was growing. So we reallocated a special ed position or a teaching position from bluff to pre-K. So there was no budget. Plus there.
NEXT> Ben Nester: It was just a reallocation of those funds. It just changed the location code in the budget. And then that brings us to 2021, current year. We currently have four

[12180-153] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Paige: This is the next one. There we go.
TEXT> And then this is just the document that was that was put together, just a very basic document that was put together in 2014 that outlined the improvement plan and a general scope and sequence and timeline for implementation. Thank you. And then so ultimately, this is our recommendation. This is administration's recommendation. We,  we we propose to continue with the pre-K structure as is, but revert back to the 1819 model, which removes one teacher and one classroom. Basically, we're trying to right size based on our current numbers. We we're seeing a big uptick in numbers. Pre-COVID, Covid hit numbers went down last year. Our numbers were very low and they generally are remaining low, though we are seeing an increase. So do we do think that we can continue to meet kids needs, with with this current current model that you see there? You know, two other bullet points that that lead us to make this recommendation in terms of let's leaving it, leave it as an early childhood model, which is 50 neurotypical developing students and not 50 but half neurotypical developing students and have special education students.
NEXT> Ben Nester: One you know, if history is any indication, we don't want to invite New Hampshire oversight again or risk another audit that would really sort of push us back to

[12180-164] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-02-02
PREV> Ben Nester: It's two sessions.
TEXT> So all of these kids aren't in there at the same time. There's two sessions. So there it's the numbers divided by two.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yes. Yeah.

[12180-183] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Paige: Yeah.
TEXT> I mean, one of the things that we were planning for, I want to say maybe end of 1920, we were talking we were talking about trying to create full day programing for our four year olds, because the feedback that we get constantly from, you know, kindergarten in particular in the elementary schools is if these kids poop out by noon, you know, the kindergartners. And so if there's a way to get them in there and have them do a full day. So we we would with that idea a little bit. And then again, not to blame everything on Covid, but it kind of threw a monkey wrench in those plans. But you know, that's something we want to revisit, particularly as we look toward a potential elementary school restructure, am I right?
NEXT> Paige: Yes. Well, yes.

[12180-187] Paige | Pre-K Coordinator, Claremont School District (first name only on the r | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: So do we push? Do we have do we have students that we're providing services to in other facilities other than this facility?
TEXT> Yes we do. We have an MOU with Head Start. So,  head start and it all depends on the child. We look at the child and we look at their developmental needs. And sometimes we'll push in there and sometimes they'll go there and to us. So they'll do a half day with them. They'll do a half day with us. Pre-COVID I did have students in multiple facilities. If if they were a working family, we could go if they were at childcare all day and they didn't want to try to figure out how to make programing work here or pleasant preschool. We don't have a ton of options in Claremont.  There's also one space also, so I don't want to leave anybody out. If I do that, please forgive me.  But that was pre-COVID. Covid changed everything, so  centers no longer allowed individuals into their centers. And for us for a while also, we didn't allow visitors into our programing, so that then skewed things. So then they had to come to us. So they were either receiving drop in services, which we also do that. So we  provide services to kids just to drop in, and then we provide services out in the public and then we provide services here.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is that the related services people that do that are those your your people?

[12180-196] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: I know I get that, I get that, but just want to.
TEXT> Yeah. I mean, technically I suppose you're right. I mean if you the way it just works in the real world, right, is like if a kid needs a little bit of speech therapy, we don't go through the rigamarole typically of enrolling them in our pre-K and serving them. You know, day after day we push and give them what they need, you know, by law. But if a kid has like a, you know, a global developmental delay or is in a wheelchair, that's when we would service them in a in a more comprehensive environment.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That's the best, best practice is some sort of.

[12180-200] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah, pre-K program, right, where kids come to you and get more than just the yeah.
TEXT> We're a kid with, you know, significant emotional behavior challenges. You know, those are the kids that we would serve, you know, here on site.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I believe that there was, a general misconception recently out there in the, the social media world that we're cutting a program. Really, we're right sizing it.

[12180-203] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: And.
TEXT> As Mike just alluded to, we're only required by law to service the, the, the children with special needs. And as a district, we know better. We had the help of the DOH,  to say, you know what, a 5050 model makes sense. And the gains have been terrific. So I just I want to I guess I want to clarify the misinformation that gets misconstrued once again that we're out here trying to to slash things. We're trying to do the right things with the proper levels of staff required to give the best possible outcome. And sometimes we have to make decisions, or decisions are being made by admin to to best utilize what we have. I don't think anybody's intent here on this board or in the admin team is to to have negative effect. I think we're all striving to follow our strategic plan and figure out the correct path forward for this district. Within those confines of what we know we need to do.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: To kind of piggyback on what Steve is saying. And I think this is I'm really glad there's a lot of people here tonight, because in particular, I think Whitney

[12180-204] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: on this board or in the admin team is to to have negative effect. I think we're all striving to follow our strategic plan and figure out the correct path forward for this district. Within those confines of what we know we need to do.
TEXT> To kind of piggyback on what Steve is saying. And I think this is I'm really glad there's a lot of people here tonight, because in particular, I think Whitney mentioned at the last meeting, like, why aren't we looking to reallocate these dollars that we are saving? And so my my answer to that is pretty complex. And I which are what Richard Go Richards he could help us throw numbers around. So, when you when you are on the school board, you suddenly learn all how we get our money and how we end up funding the education that we provide, we provide to the students of this district and unfortunately, in particular in the state of New Hampshire, all of our funding for our  for our schools is generated by property tax, local and statewide. Every time we increase our tax rate here, we we impact the most vulnerable people in our community because the property tax is not a progressive tax. So the person that gets hurt the most with that, with increase in local property tax, is a 78 year old widow on a fixed income who is barely paying for her medications already.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That's one piece. The second piece is is we never know what the state's really going to give to us, what the federal government is going to give to us,

[12180-228] Jen Gallagher | Public commenter, Ward 2 (first says ward one, corrected to two; presc | 2022-02-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: I know we're not going.
TEXT> I'm personally. Affected by this. My son currently attends preschool at the program.  He has done such they've done such a wonderful job with him.  We're a no diverse family.  And we just really. I feel like the community is scared. They think, oh, no, what's going to happen to my kids? Like, I'm on a waiting list for the pre-K. Like what is going to happen? And we just people want answers, and I think they want a little bit of hope. And what I'm hearing is very hopeful, and I'm hearing a lot of collaboration. And I also  would like to see if we can increase community engagement.  I was a little nervous when I got up here because I'm not really great at public speaking. So sorry if I'm a little shaky.  But one of the things that for me was really eye opening is I went looking for, like, parent groups, and it's actually really hard to find them here. And when I moved here,  What's up? Claremont was a great, like, online resource. Of course, it's hard to move anywhere during a pandemic, but,  here we are. So,  I just want people to know that, like, we have a lot to offer here. And sometimes I just hear people like, oh, like, the school system is in Claremont is a joke. And I think we should be upset about that because it's not a joke. And these are our kids. So thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Steve. Josh I'm sorry. Let Josh. Josh hasn't spoken tonight.

[12180-248] Paige | Pre-K Coordinator, Claremont School District (first name only on the r | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: there's like what it looks like by the numbers right now is you may have a couple more typically developing kids than you do special ed right now, based on the numbers. But that's the that's the juggling that has to go on, I guess.
TEXT> And, and I just want to back up to what Mike's saying. I think that all of our kids have special needs when they come to us, every single child we differentiate out for. So whether they have special needs or not, and whether that is a law that we have to follow, I just want people to recognize that they all come to us and they all are learning and they're all learning new things.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So thank you, Steve.

[12180-251] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: this restructuring and started to get the information out, there was so much backlash for fear of changing the local school feel. At the end of the day, I understand that to an extent, but you have to look at it as the greater good.
TEXT> We are responsible as a board, as an administrative team and as taxpayers to educate the children. There is not an option on that, and we're trying to find every way to get the early intervention involved. I didn't have that fortunate program when I was younger. My children didn't have that fortunate experience, but we've tried to develop a way to go there. And in the process, there was so much public backlash that it was clouding. The small issue was clouding the ultimate goal. And I think that while social media can be a useful tool, it's also a very dangerous weapon because it locks people into a certain thinking without coming to these meetings to question us and what our reasoning is. The other thing is, is that we can't all come out onto Facebook altogether and tell you what our thought is, because the moment we do, it's considered a meeting. So when I don't answer an email that's addressed to the whole board, it's because I don't know who's answered it, because I creates a discussion which creates a quorum. So I do it selectively as I do on Facebook. I don't really use it, I do see it, but I don't go out and respond because I don't want to put the board in question or  create an issue legally that would put the district in a pint.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay, okay.

[12180-277] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: it's been it's been running really well. These are this is the kind of the latest stuff I sent out on the 10th, ironically, when I was under under the Omicron in it hit there and you can see all all of the other things.
TEXT> Those are our absences.  Related since then,  this this was also charted  very well. Coordinated. This is this is the recent stuff I looked at. If you look at the lower right,  the board looked for information. I pulled it today. I had consistent stuff with the elementaries, including unity, that you can see going back to the before times. Okay.  Where you're looking at about 93, 93, 94%,  attendance rate, it's down about a factor of six evenly across the elementaries. It was harder to get the middle school, and it was a little bit more substantial in the high school, as you might expect at that age. But it's but  that's that's the decline. That's what we're seeing overall. These are the numbers kind of blown up. All of the students, all of the all of these numbers as well, are you can see on that other grid, if you haven't followed that, we report out as needed.  We are doing  and I think we're, kids are coming back with  or on the sixth day when when they're out  followed.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is the tracking and what you can see that, that we're proud of. With this data, you can see the consistency. You can see the spikes, the valleys and

[12180-286] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes the chair, roll-call vote answers and oth | 2022-02-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: of students by 39. Yes, I get that. It's going to change those numbers so that the discrepancy is still a wide discrepancy. But if you're looking comparing apples to apples, it's 52 out of five, 49 if we're going back to September because that.
TEXT> None of those students. No.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: No.

[12180-295] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Joshua Lambert: The number of cases don't.
TEXT> That's fine. What I'm getting at is are these kids being pulled to be homeschooled or are.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: No.

[12180-299] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So some of that shakes out anyway. I don't know that that is exactly related to homeschooling. We see most of the homeschooling actually happening earlier, you know. So, but I can I can try to follow up with that. I don't have a direct.
TEXT> Yeah, I wasn't I'm not as concerned as I was saying. It's a, it's a 1% swing on the number. That doesn't mean anything to me. It's more along the lines of the percentage of the students that have unregistered from the district. That was concerning to me in that short span, just in the high school alone.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Other thoughts. All right. For the for further comments discussion. All right.

[12180-303] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. No.
TEXT> And that's just catastrophic. So,  if we're ever going to start looking at, you know, looking at these protocols again, I think that has to be front and center is that,  we have to put student learning before front center and keep these kids in school as much as we possibly can.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: There's always seems to be the case. Before I, I don't really start anything new, so I'm watching channel nine news before I come to the school board meeting. And

[12180-316] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> If it doesn't make any sense, or if we're just doing an abundance of caution that ends up being damaging to our student population. So, Nick.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: You know, I'm not sure I quite agree with Frank, but I you know, I'm kind of right in the middle where I really wouldn't want to say what I

[12180-328] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter on masks (ward heard as 'Three'; name  | 2022-02-02
PREV> Unidentified: are the least happy they've been in 50 years. Covid related stresses are the main cause of a drastic shift towards unhappiness. Our endless Covid protocols, including masks, a factor in that. In conclusion, we know cloth and disposable masks that kids don't kids wear.
TEXT> Don't work to prevent the spread of Covid. And we know kids aren't at tangible risk if they contract Covid. Are we forcing kids to wear them because it makes some people in our community feel safer? Despite contrary evidence, I'm challenging this board to begin navigating and Demick disease that we need to live with. I feel safe saying that masking our kids forever is not supported by most parents. Thank you. Thank. You, thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Other comments from the community.

[12180-330] Whitney Skillen | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Whitney Skilling'); elected to the boar | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other comments from the community.
TEXT> I,  I have. A comment about the what Mr. Sprague was saying. My name is Whitney Skilling, by the way. Ward two,  about what Mr. Sprague was saying about the endemic reality. And I agree with you that the pandemic, the Covid 19 virus is not going away and its impacts are not going to go away. Even if the virus suddenly disappeared tomorrow, there would be lasting impacts on our on every single one of us. And in 50 years, epidemiologists are going to be studying us as the cohort who lived through Covid to look at these impacts. So I think I agree with, with Mr. Sprog, that we need to start dealing with this and planning for this now.  And I know that most of the conversation has been around Covid policy and mask wearing, but that's not what I'm talking about. What I mean is the long term mental health impacts the long term physical impacts. Long Covid is really beating up some people's lungs and internal systems, and that's going to impact their ability to work and make money for their families and feed their children. What are we going to do about that? What are we going to do about the children that have social delays from being outside the classroom for so long?
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Miss Whitney mentioned that there are 220 something missing school days that has had a serious impact on the social development of children, which we'll have to deal with later,

[12180-331] Whitney Skillen | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Whitney Skilling'); elected to the boar | 2022-02-02
PREV> Whitney Skillen: to impact their ability to work and make money for their families and feed their children. What are we going to do about that? What are we going to do about the children that have social delays from being outside the classroom for so long?
TEXT> Miss Whitney mentioned that there are 220 something missing school days that has had a serious impact on the social development of children, which we'll have to deal with later, and we need to plan for that. They're going to need extra assistance. They're going to need extra care. They're definitely going to need extra love. And we need to plan for what we're how we're going to deal with that, because it is it is going to be a lasting impact. And that's just a scientific guarantee. And I think that's something we need to start planning now as as to what Mr. Sprague said and if there's any. And I guess the most important question we always need to ask ourselves is when we're thinking about these strategies and these plans and these policies, just how are these policies, plans and strategies benefiting the students of Claremont? And there will be impacts after this pandemic that we need to start accounting for today.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.

[12204-24] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: as voters are voting on what the expense is, ultimately the makeup of the revenue decides what our tax rate is. So what this is saying and I'm going to hold the first one district assessment is what we raise out of our local taxes.
TEXT> So let's hold on that for a moment. We'll go to some of the others. Tuition. This is institution people who tuition their kids from their town to ours. For example, unity, which doesn't have a high school, sends a number of their kids to speak and we receive a caution for that. It's budgeted this year for $750,000 in savings for next year to wishing for vocational ed. Same thing. Transportation fees which are received related to vocational anticipated would be flat. Interest income was down. We can't just pay for 60,000 this year, but for anyone who gets a bank statement, there doesn't seem to be any interest or returns that we're getting on our funds that are there. So I blow that by $30,000. Pupil activities at 1500 stays the same, other which are contribution and dollars that come in from a range of different sources, is anticipated to be flat fund balance to reduce taxes, which is the surplus that we anticipate out of this year's budget, which will go to reduce taxes for next year, has been pretty consistently in the 400,000 level and
NEXT> Richard Seaman: anticipated that to be street level going forward. So our local sources are at the net of the first one. The district assessment. We come down below, we've got our

[12204-30] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID [66]) | 2022-02-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: have questions. This is the time to come to the podium and ask those questions again. As a reminder, we come to the podium, please sign in. And then we begin to see. We need to know your name and your board of residence. Yes.
TEXT> My name is Candace Crawford, Ward two. I look at the proposed budget. According to U.S. News and World Report research, the graduation rate at Stevens High School is 79%, compared to a rate of 91.8% for all of New Hampshire. I believe these are based on 2019 the year, because those are the most recent that are available. The math proficiency rate for Stevens is 32%, compared to an average of 40% for New Hampshire high schools. The reading proficiency rate is 51%, compared to 60% for the average of New Hampshire high schools. Stevens High School is rated 62 out of 8484, being the worst. Stevens High School student teacher ratio is 13 to 1. Other area schools are  Newport 11.6 to 1. Set up the 10 to 1 and follow up on 121. That means our teachers have a higher student workload and our students get less attention. Given these statistics, why is the Claremont School Board recommending a 2023 budget that is the same amount as the default budget, because obviously there is a tremendous need to improve education. Why should voters go to the effort to go and vote if it doesn't mean anything one way or the other? Either they vote or they don't. It's the same results.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Secondly, according to an article in the Valley News, from 2020, approximately 34% of our graduates planned to enter the workforce without further education. If one third of our graduates

[12204-33] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and also kind of scheduling and just trying to get more kids in to take those courses. So that's what we're focused on. So, and in terms of the quality of. In terms of the default budget. I think Mr. Stevens talked to that better.
TEXT> Well, thanks, pandemic and everyone. It's not that they aren't working. It's not that there isn't a feeling, I think, amongst the board, amongst the administration that these statistics which were  presented are not where we want to be throwing more money at it just for the sake of throwing more money at it is it is not what this budget does. This budget is looking at a range of strategies, a range of restructures, a range of scheduling,  a range of changes in the curriculum and what is being offered in the curriculum, a range of opportunities being offered with the use of cares and cares after money. And we need to continue to look at the progression that we have there. So the budget still looks at trying to address these individual statistics which were presented, but the determination from the board and the recommendation of the industry is that doesn't need more money, that needs a different use of the money that we currently have. So the  one one thing that we have a lot of faith in this changing,  changing the schedules and in terms of  in the next two years, and specifically for other Mondays that are outside the budget, the CARES funds are going to allow us to put in more teachers.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We've already been spending it on student tutoring, summer programs of extra help, types of programs, and that's why you don't see a portion of those monies. Now we have

[12204-36] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID [66]) | 2022-02-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: This is do you have an auto up? I do in terms of transparency, I'm sorry, but we have to make.
TEXT> In terms of transparency.  How  how  do we as taxpayers know  how much of that money is going to be spent and where is it going to be spent and will impact improving,  proficiency of our students?  And  the other question is,  is still didn't get an answer of why  voters should support this budget. Vote yes or no when it doesn't make any difference. I didn't get that answered. Maybe you gave it. I just didn't understand. You know, one of the.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Things, and I know you had extensive history on the school board yourself. And, one of the things that happened now, SP two is that the Richard probably can explain

[12204-49] Andy | Public commenter, Ward 3, vice chair of the Claremont Development Auth | 2022-02-09
PREV> Unidentified: what the needs are. As for employees in this community with the, you know, the development program we should add is Allen Ecorse EMT. What can we add there? But right now, next year, the need of the tech center is for the five position.
TEXT> Andy Ward three. And speaking tonight for the Claremont Development Authority as vice chair. The CEA is a group of volunteer community business leaders approved by the city Claremont City Council to support Claremont Economic Development and CDA wishes to take the board and the administration for its hard work in this. Not easy also to express its support for strengthening  programing and enrollment with within the Sugar Reveille Community Technical Center, as you've suggested, but also to express concerns over the proposed budget changes leading to the reduction  of a full time director within the facility, especially for long term growth. For years in our work, we've heard from business leaders about local, regional and national challenges finding qualified workers. Many of our own businesses seek individuals with the kinds of skills that career pathways through our local and regional technical centers can provide. The local regional economies continue to need. It's a strong case for future opportunities for people with these skills for this very purpose. The New Hampshire State Plan for 2023 is in deployment  by the State of New Hampshire Department of Education as part of the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. The CDA, along with many individuals and organizations within our communities. People here tonight feel strongly that programing available through the Sugar Valley Community Technical Center should be strengthened and made available and promoted to more of our students.
NEXT> Andy: And while running Start or Bridge to College are wonderful, they don't take the place of CT programing. Addressing this would help with career pathways. For more of our students

[12204-50] Andy | Public commenter, Ward 3, vice chair of the Claremont Development Auth | 2022-02-09
PREV> Andy: Education for the 21st Century Act. The CDA, along with many individuals and organizations within our communities. People here tonight feel strongly that programing available through the Sugar Valley Community Technical Center should be strengthened and made available and promoted to more of our students.
TEXT> And while running Start or Bridge to College are wonderful, they don't take the place of CT programing. Addressing this would help with career pathways. For more of our students from middle school through high school and beyond. You mentioned that our position is that this is best accomplished, among other things that Mr. Tempesta and Mr. Simmons have indicated, and some and the board to with a dedicated full time director position charged with the task. We also support the convening of a vision and committee that's been mentioned for help identifying the future director of the direction of the city. But the CDA asked the Claremont School Board and the administration, all of whom have stated their understanding of the importance of the sugar River Valley Community Technical Center and its programing to pursue these and other initiatives, to reconsider custody aforementioned position and recognize the need for a full time director dedicated to programing and to growth at that facility.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: Gary Merchant or do I have a motion in regards to the fall budget versus the main article budget we did at that point in time? Vote with three.

[12204-78] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter asking whether amendment money can be  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Unidentified: school board. The budget committee is only authority of the recommend a budget to the full school board. Would that vote happen to public or would it be a nonpublic decision? Any decision of the full school board would have to happen in public reaction.
TEXT> Okay, I just want up here. I just want to  take center. Yes, totally. You know, I totally support you guys. Have to keep a full position. I also want to express my concern for the fourth district,  employees  that are  being cut by this budget, and I don't even think we know what those are, to be honest. The position. I  think it was in a public. And so I urge you also think about those four positions because of our for educators that work hard in our district and deserve to have their jobs and work with our kids because I know they all work hard. So I just want to stress that concern about that as well. Thank you so much. That's fine. A second time.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: I don't.

[12204-85] Unidentified | Unidentified - board or administration responder | 2022-02-09
PREV> Gary Merchant: with a client within communities around Claremont, and that takes time. So I'm not asking you everything for a different person, but for the position to be restored a full time and the one that just became vacant, it it hasn't worked for many years.
TEXT> Okay. The total number of students that have gone through it's a capacity. I'm not saying no. Absolutely not. That we don't have the need not to think that we aren't doing things  in terms of with our students and with not that there isn't a community need. Don't don't misread that. We're just looking at other ways to put that in, you know, through the through the schedule, through other types of programs. Thank you.
NEXT> Derek Bergman: Very much. Derek Bergman, Ward three undermining of a brother. Funny thing that my dad had when I was growing up. Working on projects around the house, and I think

[12204-88] Bonnie Miles | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'born and Miles ... Ward two' [204]) | 2022-02-09
PREV> Derek Bergman: be better than what it is today, I think the Vision Committee is a step in the right direction. Let's get the community involvement, figure out what the number of programs is, and provide the support to the director position to make it happen. Thanks.
TEXT> Thank you for being here tonight. My name is born and Miles, and I'm on Ward two and. You stop and think about this. This is really embarrassing that here we are,  a room full of people. And I hate to say that the table here, but it's it's. I cannot in favor of education.  I just I don't get it. We have a chance to. We have a man who wanted to add to the budget almost $62,000. It sounds like a lot of money, but, you know, you. You kind. Of put in some what, holding these kids back. We have a lot of kids that do not want to go to full year college. They can't afford the big student debts that will follow them through part of their lives. And this is their chance. And it's not it's not being pagan. And I know  this  was mentioned before, but I'm not sure about the people here in the room.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: But this was a letter from the Department of Education, and it was, addressed to Mr. Herzog. And this was from the part of the Perkins application which was mentioned.

[12204-90] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter on Claremont's image (possibly Bonnie  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Bonnie Miles: education and outlines the outlines the road ahead for city CTE at the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center in Como and dated May of 2020. So this I think that was. I pointed out across second. Thank you, thank you. Yes yes yes yes.
TEXT> And we struggle with image in Claremont. We all know we tried to write a good education for his children, but if the word goes out that we're going to cut out  the head of  technical center or whatever, however you want to  call that position or make it a different position, that just makes it sound like we've leased internally and especially externally. We're throwing the baby out with the backwater. So I agree with everyone else's comments, but I'd like to consider our image. And  who would like to move to Claremont, and who would like to send their Claremont their kids to Claremont schools and hit be educated here. And I think the one opportunity this particular community has is to educate the children to do something that's not college education. That is our one opportunity.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Mister. Both. I'm sorry. One more time. I mean, if you haven't already spoken, could you please come down and and and turn it to both? Understand?

[12204-95] Unidentified | Unidentified - tech center teacher answering questions on CTE director | 2022-02-09
PREV> Tom Gallagher: Please take that into consideration. Please understand that you have the power to consider what people are saying. Thank you.
TEXT> Question about student numbers though, because there was one aspect of that I forgot. This is just answering that question. Still, when you look at the numbers, I might have to ask the board, do you see the numbers of students that are also in the introductory or bigger programs and things like that? Because that also makes a big difference. I have an engineering class that may not be part of those numbers that I'm running about 30 students through this second semester about. I have an introductory class. I'll probably around about 50 through. I don't think the state reports those numbers as full program numbers. And so I just wanted to  answer that question for further is that we do have some introductory classes. Could we have more? Of course. I love the idea of having the eighth grade type of things going on. I've heard something. So  just to answer that question a little bit more, but we also do have some beta programs. A  kind of a half program going on. Beta programs are pretty full. Covid did hit us pretty hard because the students having to take requirements that they missed because they were online, and some students did the work and naturally, some didn't.
NEXT> Unidentified: And the next year they had to go back and get those classes again. So that is the trends that I've seen and that I've actually experienced as a teacher.

[12204-119] Tom Kinnear | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Tom Kinnear, Ward two' [269]; spelling  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: You're good.
TEXT> So. Ironically, were  among the richest states in the United States. But we spend the least amount on education by the state, New Hampshire, due to the leadership and continued advocacy by the Claremont School District. Has  had the Supreme Court interpret our Constitution as delineating education as a fundamental right. So here we are  sitting, waiting for the legislature to get off their backsides and do what they should have done 30 years ago. So here we are,  debating over something that  I support and think should pass. But  it's it's. And having been there done that is always a balancing between the taxpayers  and the needs of the children. And, you know, I think the I'd be very surprised that the school board and  superintendent and staff don't follow your wishes, but there's more to be done. We have some some great legislators in. But there's Gary here. So anyway,  I support the amendment and I support the continued advocacy by Frank Sprague and others to tell our legislators to to do the right thing and not play politics with our kids. Again, the language that was drafted by John Adams, who during the Revolutionary War, which we adopted in our Constitution, was that, you know, education isn't just a nice thing to have. Okay. Yeah. Playgrounds and post offices and roads and education. No, it was essential to the preservation of that free government that they were fighting life and limb for and which ultimately prevailed.
NEXT> Tom Kinnear: So, I support the school board and all of you.

[12204-125] Derek Bergman | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-ID 'Derek Bergman, Ward three' [196], ' | 2022-02-09
PREV> Unidentified: Terrifying question on this. I'm curious, of the effect of the two, the proposed amendment and the acceptance. What the would that change the default budget? Thank you.
TEXT> Derek Ward three. So I am in support of this amendment as well. In addition to the reasons. Already stated. About building those. Bridges between the middle school program and. The tech center, I think. Another point that was.  Referenced by Miss Crawford is the failure rate at Stevens High School. My son is graduated this past year. I think this past year it was closer to 30%,  perhaps impacted by Covid. But of the 110 or so kids in his class, only about 80 or 85 actually walked graduation. I had the fortune to attend a program a couple of years ago, and we had a chance to tour and listen to the Hartford, Vermont Tech Center, and the director at the time, Doug Heaviside,  took an immense amount of pleasure in connecting with kids who perhaps weren't great fits for a traditional learning environment. He called them hot,  the tone of language down to fit the audience what he called those the few kids. And those are the kids that when you walk by the hallway and greet them in the morning, the response would be few. He targeted those kids for his text and her program. In fact, the young lady that briefed us on her  participation in the Natural Resources program, we were blown away in her professionalism and the enthusiasm that she had.
NEXT> Derek Bergman: And after she was done, Doug said, that was one of the few kids when I started this program a couple years ago. So I don't know that this would

[12204-126] Derek Bergman | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-ID 'Derek Bergman, Ward three' [196], ' | 2022-02-09
PREV> Derek Bergman: morning, the response would be few. He targeted those kids for his text and her program. In fact, the young lady that briefed us on her participation in the Natural Resources program, we were blown away in her professionalism and the enthusiasm that she had.
TEXT> And after she was done, Doug said, that was one of the few kids when I started this program a couple years ago. So I don't know that this would be the silver bullet,  but I think the tech center programing with a guidance person who can reach out and connect with those kids offers an opportunity  to help with our overall failure rate. It won't solve every problem for every kid, but I think it is  another advantage. And again, it's something that I don't think the director  would have time to do. Thank you.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Thank you.

[12204-164] Charlene Lovett | Acting moderator, Claremont School District deliberative session (intr | 2022-02-09
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thanks to work and work with Alex and with, I'm trying to Sharon McDaniel and Sherry as the negotiators and again, people watching at home, people here, please support this. These these people are critical to the school district are our educational leaders. Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you. Is there anybody else you'd like to speak on this? Okay. If not a close to the discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye,  aye. Anybody opposed? The ayes have it. 12. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies room concludes our meeting tonight. Thank you. I know it's going to live longer than I'm probably respected, but on behalf of myself and the school district, I'd like to thank you for coming out tonight and making your life one here. Okay.
NEXT> 

[12210-55] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member, attending remotely (roll call 'Doctor L | 2022-02-16
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah. We got.
TEXT> All right. So first of all, I don't think we can take masks off of busses. I think that is a national recommendation, not recommendation. National requirement that Max need to stay on on all the United States transportation, including school busses.  Aside from that, right now, we're in the middle of winter, and I think that's not a great idea. Numbers are much higher than they were at the beginning of the school year, when we could have windows open and proper ventilation.  There's,  the CDC and  the American Academy of Pediatrics are still recommending universal masking, regardless of vaccination status inside K-12 schools.  And we can't just think about the students. We have older staff members who are at a higher risk than our students are, and everyone is focused on their kids. Well, it's part of being part of a society. You need to, you know, buck up and do what you need to do to protect people. And I think like the visitors thing, like that's fine, especially with the concert issue that's come up. I don't think there's any reason to prevent spectators, as long as their masks either allow mass spectators or don't have the concerts at all.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: But other than that, I mean the masking issue. No one professional has stated that we're in an endemic situation. Obviously, we're probably headed there, but I'm not going to

[12210-127] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> Well, I guess we have to kind of consider that in many parts of the world, particularly well funded, areas in Finland, Norway, Denmark. I mean, I have a list of, of countries in Europe that have, have never required masks for primary school children.  And that the European CDC has different requirements than our CDC. So I, it's not universally accepted that this is is an appropriate way of of managing students, in particular in primary education. So and in reality, there's also been a directive  from the European CDC not to mask children at the elementary school level because it inhibits learning and social emotional skill development. So, you know, it's just I think, you know, Nick said it two meetings ago that if not us, who if not now, when are we going to make changes? And I think it's incumbent upon us to start putting  children first. And the idea that they're at grave  physical risk is, isn't the case. And the fact that we are  causing great harm is evidenced by  dramatic increases in mental health issues, suicide attempts by adolescents, disruptive behavior in schools, which we've actually seen at Stevens. And these kind of mandates are our,  are hurting our kids and not helping them. So that's where I'm at with it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to allow some of the public to to speak your name and ward, please.

[12210-131] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter opposing the motion; name and ward not | 2022-02-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: I have a master of science degree, and I have a master's in anesthesia, and I've worked in critical care, and I've also been certified. Or I have privileges to provide care for Covid patients.
TEXT> Thank you. Additionally, from what I'm seeing so far, it seems like there's not a strong argument to change anything. The only thing it seems like is you have opinions. Opinions? We have the opinion, your opinions. I'm sorry. Or the invalid. We have the CDC, we have the government. And to,  to say that you just don't feel like it anymore. Is it a service to our children?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I mean, I.

[12210-152] Michael | Public commenter, Ward 3 (ASR 'Michael Ward three'; surname not given) | 2022-02-16
PREV> Michael: come up with a sustainable plan to live with it. And that's all we're really talking about here. You know, we are doing more harm than good. And we have been for a while. We've known for a long time that kids weren't at risk.
TEXT> That's not disputable. Those facts are proven all around the world. Why are we continuing to use an operating system that is obsolete against the Omicron variant that we have today, which is much less dangerous, much more contagious? The masks aren't making a difference. And honestly, the rest of the protocols are a huge problem too. And I think that needs to also be on the conversation, because I know in my own family, both of my kids have had it. They've both been out of school multiple times with close contacts that have had it. They've both missed sporting events and extracurricular activities as a result of quarantine related issues. I asked people that work for me the the daily drama of who's not going to be at work today or who can't go out and do a service call today because they have to stay home with their six year old daughter because the school said that they have to, you know, this stuff is creating a never ending series of daily drama that the citizens of this town are putting up with.
NEXT> Michael: And we've done that for two years, most of us with the idea that, hey, this was a temporary situation. We're doing it to try to protect the at risk.

[12210-155] Veronica | District school nurse (uncertain title; superintendent asks 'Veronica  | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Comment to Vermont is that, again, as Mike said, they're shooting for March 1st, so there's lead time. They also have a, there's students are vaccinated at 80% or higher in Vermont. I don't know what they are in in Claremont, New Hampshire.
TEXT> So,  so Vermont is recommending but the school has to be at 80% and to speak to the students who are staying home,  who've had to be home. Honestly, if you've had your child vaccinated and you get your child vaccinated, they don't have to stay home. Nobody has to stay home unless they're symptomatic. So I encourage people to get their children vaccinated. They only just introduced the vaccine for our elementary school kids back in, I think, October or November. So we're just catching up with that. But anytime the students are vaccinated and most of the students who we had to stay home in quarantine are those that are unvaccinated.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So the.

[12210-159] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member, attending remotely (roll call 'Doctor L | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Josh I'm sorry. Go ahead. Josh.
TEXT> Yeah, I was going to speak to the Vermont thing, but that was already covered.  But we also keep focusing on students. And it's not just about the students. You have to remember that wearing these masks prevents others from getting sick. It doesn't prevent you from getting sick. It prevents others from catching your germs. So if we have a bunch of people who decide, oh, I no longer want my kid to wear a mask, it's going to be the more reckless people who are going to infect the ones who are trying to keep others safe. And again, we're still talking about children, and we're not considering the older adults who work in these schools who love their jobs and don't want to quit because people decide that they're now epidemiology experts. And it's we're still in the middle of winter. It's not the right time.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Good.

[12210-177] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Michael Petrin: So just to follow the state guidelines is for returning to school. And follow the federal guidelines for masking during transportation. And then we pushed the start date till Monday the 21st.
TEXT> I do want to speak. I just want to speak a little bit to what Josh is saying, and,  and I and I do hear that, that there's an interest in protecting,  adults. But I think there comes a time where,  the cost of having children bearing the burden of protecting adults is, is too high. And there have been so many dramatic negative consequences to children, their mental health, their ability to develop normally. And these things are, are well documented there. Those are things that experts have said is occurring. And we have plugged our ears and we only listen to one type of expert anymore. We're not listening to mental health experts. We're not listening to child development experts, and we're not listening to people who are experts on delivering education and what that face to face interaction means. And this school board is, is exists to do what's best for students.  Vaccinated adults are not really at super high risk of having dramatic negative consequences. And 95 masks protect you.  We have  an abundance of N95 masks available to any educator that would like to wear it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Do we.

[12210-180] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Do we have 2000 and more.
TEXT> For 2095? Masks are available for educators, and I would encourage anyone who I mean, there's going to be no way we wouldn't say, here's your mask.  And so I think we just need to put kids first. And  adults need to accept the burden of risk.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay, I'm ready to move this. So since we have someone remote, I'm going to ask for a roll call. Vote Mrs. Woodman on this motion.

[12210-186] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Steve.' [83] before t | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay, good.
TEXT> Once again, that argument is completely counter argument. It's counterintuitive, the mask on your face. And to protect your face, you're breathing in only your own germs. That's supposed to be filtering out the outside for educators. Want to wear a mask, and whoever wants to wear a mask so they can. So to try to blame the people who aren't wearing a mask like they're out here committing genocide of the the mask is just insane. It the argument doesn't even make any logical sense the way it's being put out there. We have to do something for these children. This board's asked several times for the rough idea of instructional days or hours missed by these students. We haven't gotten that information, but we know it's a lot. I mean, we don't really need to know the the exact it's a lot. We're once again sacrificing the children for the adults because the children are losing out on their education to protect the adults. We've seen it time and time again. So I make a motion to move the question to a vote.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is everybody aware of what we're of what we're voting on? No. Okay. So let's restate the motion.

[12210-200] Bonnie Miles | Public commenter (chair thanks 'Bonnie' [268]; surname from the 2/9/20 | 2022-02-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> For letting me speak before you vote. It's a tough decision. I I'm glad I'm not in your place, but I know I may be someday. I know we have to think of the kids first. Parents are saying I don't want masks. Parents are saying I do want masks. And it's it's a it's a tough. It's a tough fight. It's not easy solving them.  Personally, I'm very,  I think I think you should really be sure. Absolutely sure   of your of your position. Because this is like, get the board here. You got some parents here. Some. It's like a three legged stool. One thing falls, the whole thing's going to fall down. And I think if you got some real professional advice from someone who works in a Covid ward and other teachers and other guidance counselors, put them all together and then decide. And also if if you were to do this, it's a tough one to call. But personally, I would feel better if you if you had to do it, do it like after spring vacation, because everything's closed up. They're all breathing the same air. Spring vacation will be here in no time, and that'll be so much better.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, we've got.

[12315-137] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: How are you?
TEXT> I'm good.  So just to give a little backdrop to the thought behind this and looking at what we see coming on the backside of Covid is that we've seen the gap widening with a lot of our students,  and that social emotionally that's academically. And how do we stop  that gap from widening and what what do we need to put in place? So what we kind of came up with in the thought was some academic centers that would exist at every grade level, on every floor. So one for the sixth grade, seventh grade, eighth grade. And in that room would be a guidance counselor, would be an a dean of students, a campus aide, a special ed director for that grade. So that when we have students that are struggling, whether that be social emotionally, whether that be academically,  you know, behaviors, information. And so that information, we could kind of just triage all of that for students in one place.  A guidance counselor would stay with their grade level. So we have two now. Will take a third. Whomever that would be with six would stay six, then go with seven, then go with eight.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So now you really develop those relationships. And I think a good question to ask when when talking about a guidance counselor is what role do we want a guidance

[12315-138] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: just triage all of that for students in one place. A guidance counselor would stay with their grade level. So we have two now. Will take a third. Whomever that would be with six would stay six, then go with seven, then go with eight.
TEXT> So now you really develop those relationships. And I think a good question to ask when when talking about a guidance counselor is what role do we want a guidance counselor to have. Is it just to to service students to talk about relationships or is it more?  And do we want them to stay with these students and develop that so they can work as they're getting into the text? Enter into the high school as a team. And you know, right now we have 370 students.  At any given time, there's one student in a crisis  or in need, and that leaves one guidance counselor for 369 students.  And if we want our students to reach out to our parents, not just our students, they really need to have a small caseload to be able to do that. So looking at that, putting that in with a dean of students and a campus aide.  The idea would be that you're helping triage what is exactly going on?  From all angles. And it's not just, okay, there's behavior. The hammer nail method. We need something more for these students.  And it may be that it's social, emotional, and that's going to help with the academics.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: It may need that. They need some more individual time. Smaller classes, smaller attention. More attention in smaller settings. So these academic centers that will exist will really help those

[12315-158] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: these classrooms, a student is telling us, I need this as well. And I think if we're going to listen, this is kind of some of the things that we can put in place for them as going to your how do we dissolve this?
TEXT> My thought. I mean, the counselor I really think is something I believe strongly that would need to stay.  And and that's to to your question. That's one thing. I look at this as we need to stop the bleeding somewhere in regards to what's going on with some of the students and being able to support them, no student is going to learn, no adults going to learn if they don't feel safe and supported. And while there's so much support there and they're safe in school, they need to feel social, emotionally support, academically safe. And I think providing this does that. I think this if you take a look at this over the next couple of years, if we develop this, I really think, this will help us get back on track. We use the train scenario.  And I think that if we're looking at this over the next couple of years  and we put this in place, I think this helps really put structures in place and we may not need it would be great. Believe me, it would be great to have all of this. And I and I get that and we have to be responsible.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: You know, to the community and what we're spending. But I really see for right now, in the next couple of years, this is really going to help set in

[12315-169] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sure.
TEXT> Yeah. So I see it. You know, we all take on all of those things, right?  Every employee I think is, is  is part of that their job description. I see the campus aid really as,  a secondary academic support, social emotional support, conflict resolution, healthy decision making, things that your, your conflicts that you're having within your peer conflicts and things like that. So I think that is part of that support. I think the dean helps with some of,  the discipline that's happening with the teachers. What's in your toolbox? What do you need to do? How else can we approach? I think some of the things Mike was talking about and how we're going to speak to our students and support our students, that really would be a dean and really overseeing that. And then you have your campus aid, part of the part of that development with counselors,  with the Dean social emotionally.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. I'd like to call up one of order.

[12315-180] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1, former Claremont School Board member (self-I | 2022-04-06
PREV> Patrick Adrian: sounds similar to this, the, the but I guess the one thing I guess I was kind of trying to wrap my head around. So that was like one program. So we had kids eighth through, you know, kind of middle school in high school.
TEXT> But,  it was a self-contained program. And the reason kind of bringing up is because a lot of these kids, you know, it's social, they're the issues are behavioral. You know, I mean, they do have some academic issues, but they were in our program for behavior,  more so so we would give them academic support. But a lot of what we were doing was, Behavior intervention and just,  when there were issues, we would have to kind of we would have a, a group with the students and staff.  We had to do kind of one on one processing with them and kind of creating a kind of reentry plan, things like that. And the reason I'm bringing that up is, I think what a what made that program kind of work. It was kind of one program, I guess. I'm kind of confused by the structure here.  I just want to kind of see it. Are we talking about the same kind of thing? And if so, is this one kind of whole program or they're going to be three different programs because how would that be dealt with? If you have kids, there's some of these kids that I know.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: They're in our school system. They're not failing one subject. It's and the kids I worked with, it wasn't one subject. It was a broader issue in which their behaviors

[12315-181] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1, former Claremont School Board member (self-I | 2022-04-06
PREV> Patrick Adrian: we talking about the same kind of thing? And if so, is this one kind of whole program or they're going to be three different programs because how would that be dealt with? If you have kids, there's some of these kids that I know.
TEXT> They're in our school system. They're not failing one subject.  It's and the kids I worked with, it wasn't one subject. It was a broader issue in which their behaviors and were in their academic struggles kind of went across the board.  So I guess I was trying to understand. Are we talking kind of three separate classrooms or one program? And also, I guess how I guess.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is it.

[12315-186] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Pretty much.
TEXT> Yeah. So in terms I'll try to summarize,  Mr. Romeo and also speak to the other one. So when you see the split screen right there. So the top is only for the middle schools, the, the essence of it to boil down and summarize pop in if I'm off rank but is  the but the what's parallel between the high school program in which we'll get to and also the middle school program is that we're intervening sooner in smaller chunks with support so kids don't lose credit or get so far behind. The academic center in general is all purpose in focused. And I think the biggest piece of this where I  frankly think it's pretty, it's pretty brilliant, is by grade level, you have the wraparound support so that not only  in the,  Moscheles  point before about what is the campus aid and how does it all work? Everyone in that room is a wraparound support for all of the students. Middle schools in general are teamed,  and that's the essence of it. So the focus on this now too, as opposed to other it's a fairly common model across the country. But the reason now after Covid  to to really focus on this is to Principal Romeo's point is some of these kids haven't been in a regular classroom for. So that's why it's all hands on deck, and that's why it's so concentrated in terms of how it might to get to the other question.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we'll get to that before and then. And I know for time we'll have the high school come up. But that's that's the essence of it. And you can

[12315-189] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and, and also to talk about specifically we have a similar act. We already have a structure that will talk about but also the, the alt program that we're trying to get back to look at that, that dropout non complete rate as well okay.
TEXT> Good evening everybody. Say how. Happy amen to be here. And I'm really looking forward to finishing this year and moving on to the next. The students, the staff everyone have been fantastic. We really have. So  I'll just go right down the list. I mean, I work backwards in regards to, you know, we have all this SM money, you know, what is that going to mean when the ESA funds are out? And,  you know, how much is the tax going to be left holding? I think right now it's just looking at it's a, it's a to answer the questions that put forth before is like it's all about if we're looking at the money while we were giving it's for mitigation. It's saying these kids right now have lost so much over Covid and we still haven't gotten through a whole year without it. So what we're hoping by using this money is creating these programs without the taxpayers having to flip the bill and say it worked or it didn't work, and saying, okay, this is what  we want to hopefully use, and it's going to be successful by trying to create,  you know, alternative programs in additional positions and along the way keep that data.
NEXT> Christopher Pratt: So at some point when we come to that may have to make difficult decisions on what can we keep, what can we afford to keep, what have we don't

[12315-190] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Christopher Pratt: the bill and say it worked or it didn't work, and saying, okay, this is what we want to hopefully use, and it's going to be successful by trying to create, you know, alternative programs in additional positions and along the way keep that data.
TEXT> So at some point when we come to that may have to make difficult decisions on what can we keep, what can we afford to keep, what have we don't have to worry about paying for because of attrition, providing that data to the board. So you guys have the information to make the decisions if you need to. But looking at long term subs right now, it's very difficult to find subs in general. And right now still we have some, you know, teachers that may be out due to Covid or something like that. So by having long term subs, permanent subs in the building, we don't have to worry about finding a sub. We have now. We have subs. We're in the building every day. So hopefully there's not as much loss of learning because a lot of times if you have one sub one day and then that same teacher is out for a week and you can't fill that same thing. A lot of times the kids are losing instruction already because they don't have that consistent person, or the person that they even know goes back to the old, you know, oh, it's a sub, you know, we're going to do what we want when we want. So that's trying to, you know, so that. Right. They're just helping us. We rely we have a body that's in the building.
NEXT> Christopher Pratt: They know the kids. They know what's going on in those classrooms because in the buildings a lot. And so hopefully as as time goes on, we don't have to

[12315-191] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Christopher Pratt: back to the old, you know, oh, it's a sub, you know, we're going to do what we want when we want. So that's trying to, you know, so that. Right. They're just helping us. We rely we have a body that's in the building.
TEXT> They know the kids. They know what's going on in those classrooms because in the buildings a lot. And so hopefully as as time goes on, we don't have to worry about filling all these positions that we can't fill when teachers are out sick or ill. In a lot of times, too, with everything changes so fast, we want them to take their professional development. But it's really tough if we're really trying to protect academic instruction. So the campus aides that you have there, those are the the current three people who work within the the ES room. And so what I'm hoping to do is you have all this punitive pieces going on in schools. You have the out of school suspension, you have in-school suspension. What we're hoping between, you know, the alternative program academic center and the current structure we have is kind of shift that from punitive to restorative. So if kids are getting in trouble in the classroom, one, if they do have to be out of the classroom, we're trying to teach them and learn from their mistakes and move forward so they can make better decisions and have the full wraparound services for them in that setting.
NEXT> Christopher Pratt: Because right now, a kid will get in-school suspension. They'll be in there. They may or may not do work because, you know, we don't have the structures in place

[12315-192] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Christopher Pratt: trouble in the classroom, one, if they do have to be out of the classroom, we're trying to teach them and learn from their mistakes and move forward so they can make better decisions and have the full wraparound services for them in that setting.
TEXT> Because right now,  a kid will get in-school suspension. They'll be in there. They may or may not do work because, you know, we don't have the structures in place to have, okay, we're going to sit down. We're going to we're going to you can meet with your council. You can be the social worker we're going to put in place, and we're actually going to make it a learning experience for them. And so we're so from that we have the bodies in place. We're just going to kind of switch it from punitive to restorative, you know across the board. And when you get down to the academic center and all programs 30 days into it, I can say that, you know, I don't think we're, you know, right now, I can say we're working with absolutes here. I think a lot of it depends on, you know, you know, if we can if we can find the science and math and English teachers because right now it's tough. I can tell you we're not getting the applicants that we used to. So based on that, there are a lot of different models. You know, I want to look at, you know, I'd like to say, how are we going to how are we going to these students?
NEXT> Christopher Pratt: I think a lot of times, you know, we're trying to work closely with the middle school and have more of a common language and have more of that bridge.

[12315-193] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Christopher Pratt: we're not getting the applicants that we used to. So based on that, there are a lot of different models. You know, I want to look at, you know, I'd like to say, how are we going to how are we going to these students?
TEXT> I think a lot of times, you know, we're trying to work closely with the middle school and have more of a common language and have more of that bridge. So when kids go to the middle school, to the high school, that you're not changing so much, and is the more that stability of,  of constant what to expect. And so one of those so one of the things how those kids be identified at the end of the year, you have the eighth graders. So moving on to the ninth grade, sometimes they're just not ready. Okay. So those students are identified from the meetings that we've had that they're already behind a little bit. We know that. And we already know the students that we have in ninth grade. Instead of just pushing them along to 10th grade like we like, it can happen and they'll continue to lose ground. And eventually, you know, that's why I drop out. Rate goes down is that this program is for those kids. And so, you know, the other model we're looking at is, is maybe the best thing for some of these kids, because as I as they come and I talk to him and say, well, why isn't it working in the classroom?
NEXT> Christopher Pratt: I just don't like being in the classroom. So why not take advantage of what the the career center has to offer? Break these kids up to an Am group

[12315-194] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Christopher Pratt: for those kids. And so, you know, the other model we're looking at is, is maybe the best thing for some of these kids, because as I as they come and I talk to him and say, well, why isn't it working in the classroom?
TEXT> I just don't like being in the classroom. So why not take advantage of what the the career center has to offer? Break these kids up to an Am group in a PM group and say, okay, you're going to take this class, you're going, you're going to take your academics with the science, math and English for the first half of the day. And the other group will start off here at the center, and then they switch in that way, they're working at their own pace on both, on both ends. We're getting them out of the building. And a lot of times these kids, that's what they want. The full walls of the classroom doesn't work. So those are some of the ideas where we're trying to explore. But a lot hinges on can we even find.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Those.

[12315-196] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Those.
TEXT> Those teachers to come in and do that. So what I call it alternate program, alternative program. Yeah. But it's also academic academic center. It's also a restorative place because we really want to tap into the restorative piece of it. And I think for me, the most important thing is coming in and creating in in establishing work with students. So we have a, a building where teachers want to teach and kids want to be because we can have all the money in the programs in the world, but we have a place that people don't want to be. Learning is not going to take place, so it's expending a lot of time in and really recognizing kids for the positive things that we're doing and shift away from just talking the kids when they're doing something wrong. So, I mean, so that's that's pretty much a nutshell from the high school standpoint.  Of what I can tell you after 30 days. So,  questions.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I'd like to we keep in the train on track here. This is you know, a lot of this is under item number four. So I'd like to if you

[12315-204] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-ID 'I'm D | 2022-04-06
PREV> Alex Herzog: experience. And so we're thinking, how do we make those work? But if you look at what we've got up here, these are things that we can accommodate in the building. We may be there may be some challenges to find an instructor for those.
TEXT> We're going to work hard to see what we can fill. Some of my instructors currently at the tech center are willing to step up and give up their prep time to teach these classes so that they can get an experience in there. And I'll just go like computer programing. We talked about robotics.  Aviation is one of the CTE fields at other schools,  but we've talked about drones and drones usage and how drones could be a bigger piece in the future. Learn to build would be a carpentry kind of class, where they can learn the basics and elements and get some experience of using hammers and saws. Home repair challenges in plumbing are how do we get young people to kind of go in there and take a look at that, but make that course more of a home repair? And how do you fix things at home? How do you fix a lamp?  And really the courses and of course an intro to health fields so we can start looking at the health sciences and take a look at how do we partner down the road. But this will get students excited in eighth grade. And it really mimics a lot of what we do in our summer camps.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We've had a summer camp every year except for one because of Covid, and we offer students in experience in our classes. I'm not saying it's watered down, but it's

[12315-205] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-ID 'I'm D | 2022-04-06
PREV> Alex Herzog: fields so we can start looking at the health sciences and take a look at how do we partner down the road. But this will get students excited in eighth grade. And it really mimics a lot of what we do in our summer camps.
TEXT> We've had a summer camp every year except for one because of Covid, and we offer  students in experience in our classes. I'm not saying it's watered down, but it's a lot more safety driven because we're talking about students going into six, seventh and eighth grade. And from those experiences, we see students that are very interested. Talking to Mr. Romeo, if we didn't have that summer camp program, there's 3 or 4 students that he has worked with that said, wow,  I can't wait to get into the high school to take those classes, because they kind of got that experience over the summer. And that  and those are where we're looking at for in regards to our thing. Lots of planning still to do in it. There's lots of moving pieces that we have to figure out, but I think it's a good plan for the fall. So from what we think  right now is like a 1244 or 1250  till 205, they would come over here and get that experience. We're looking at doing a quarter. We found that if we have intro classes that are semester long and a student is not interested in that intro class, they are not engaged and they just become disruptive and they don't want to do it. So the shorter the classes for us, the shorter time period, and then they could get multiples.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So we're looking at periodic or, you know, off the cuff about 30 students and two classes per quarter. And then that'll get us about 120 students to come through.

[12315-208] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-ID 'I'm D | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: You know.
TEXT> And of course, they'll have a good experience here. We rarely have a discipline problem in the tech center because our students are very engaged and move in. If we see anything at all, they're disengaged. They want to sit in the classroom. And of course, we try to engage them and try to get them on different projects. You know, one, for instance, we have one student that's in Mr. Pope's class. Mr. Pope was one of the better instructors that we have here in the school district. And the student just didn't want to be in the machine shop. So we put them down into carpentry and he's flourishing. So those. Are the things we can do, and those are the things we are responsive to. The other thing I wanted to speak to is a visioning committee that has been discussed and kind of brought up a couple of times. We've gotten a lot of great  reach out as to people who are wanted to be involved with that. As you see, Mr. Tempesta put with the Esther money, $100,000 aside, which we can decide how we want to best use that is that visiting new sites is that, you know, holding bigger meetings.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Of course, we want to get the community involved, the public involved, to give their input. Mr. Pope has volunteered. We asked him to kind of lead it, and I

[12315-227] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair, elected this meeting ('Congratulations,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Bonnie Miles: I know, I know, once gone to the Rhode Island, the school, Johnson and Wales.
TEXT> So congratulations to our bowling team on two years in a row. So  next we have Miss Chastity with the Youth in government proposal. Welcome.
NEXT> Jill Thorsten: Hi, I'm Jill Thorsten. I teach social studies at the high school, but I am also these in government advisor. This year we're in a rebuilding year as well. We

[12315-228] Jill Thorsten | Social studies teacher, Stevens High School, and Youth in Government a | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: So congratulations to our bowling team on two years in a row. So next we have Miss Chastity with the Youth in government proposal. Welcome.
TEXT> Hi, I'm Jill Thorsten. I teach social studies at the high school, but I am also these in government advisor. This year we're in a rebuilding year as well.  We only have ten students going to youth in government this year.  But we definitely had students step up. We have Lily Besser, who's going to be  the chair of the House Judiciary Committee, and Sarah Wood  agreed to be her co-chair because there are so few students across the state going to using government this year. So we had to fill in a lot of holes.  Aubrey Herzog is going to be working on the Executive council this year.  I think she's going for her brother's seat eventually.  We,  got youth in government to agree to only having two students per room for our kids. Because when I met with the parents on a zoom, we  discussed about Covid and those types of things, and the parents felt more comfortable only having two kids per room. And youth and government did agree to that.  They are requiring that the kids, when they're in the  buildings to wear masks, and  they did require that our students get Covid tested, which we did today during our meeting. That was an interesting experience.  We had Nancy Lewis, the former adviser to Using Government, came in a couple of weeks ago to help the girls who were going to be chair about how to run through parliamentary procedure and that type of thing.
NEXT> Jill Thorsten: And those girls that are going. To be our chairs, they are going to morrow after school for an extra night down in youth. The government will there they will

[12315-229] Jill Thorsten | Social studies teacher, Stevens High School, and Youth in Government a | 2022-04-06
PREV> Jill Thorsten: meeting. That was an interesting experience. We had Nancy Lewis, the former adviser to Using Government, came in a couple of weeks ago to help the girls who were going to be chair about how to run through parliamentary procedure and that type of thing.
TEXT> And those girls that are going.  To be our chairs, they are going  to morrow after school for an extra night down in youth. The government will there they will get the James O'Neil training, in addition to getting an extra night in the hotel. And they usually get the schmooze with people down there as well.  We also went to Pre Ledge last month and  because they abbreviated the session because of the weather that day. They had the training for the students in terms of how to run committee meetings in the main house, which is, you know, when you're on the floor, it's pretty intimidating because the size. But,  three of our kids went up and spoke during that pre practice  and I would say hours and and a couple other kids from a couple other schools were like the only kids who went and spoke. And so I was really proud that our kids went up multiple times to speak. And they were, you know, newbies to this. Some of them had done it online last year  is about Gleason had never done it before, but Olivia Churchill and Elias Boyington and Isabel all went up and spoke on behalf of bills,  and against bills when we were practicing.
NEXT> Jill Thorsten: And they they really made me proud. And they're doing our school proud down there. Other than that, I gave a packet with some pictures and stuff for you guys,

[12315-231] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Steven' before this v | 2022-04-06
PREV> Jill Thorsten: proud down there. Other than that, I gave a packet with some pictures and stuff for you guys, and it does have the Covid outline and what they want us to do. So we're all set to go. This Friday, unless you have any questions.
TEXT> I'd like to make a motion to approve the Youth in government trip.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Second, any further discussion? All those in favor opposed? All right. Good job. Thank you very much.

[12315-260] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member, outgoing Chair (new chair thanks 'Frank | 2022-04-06
PREV> Bonnie Miles: All right.
TEXT> So I'm wondering this is for all grades. So I had the opportunity to to talk to a young man the other day who,  essentially is should be in school and is not. And so I'm wondering, I don't see anywhere in the planning for recapture of those kids that we've lost.  I think that, if memory serves, we saw  numbers of 570 or so at the high school, and I'm assuming it may be similar at the middle school, but I think those numbers are down to around 500 or 5, ten or something. So there are a lot of missing kids out there that disappeared during Covid. So I don't see any.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You you don't believe believe me. That's the summary. So in the, in in the bins in the other document, I gave the whole board netter online, some of the

[12315-294] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Joshua: Academic center.
TEXT> Yeah, that's that's what I mean. So the academic center is, is for every student. Every student can cycle through that. We're not talking just that's not a special ed type of thing. It's not just a social, emotional thing. You can make up work as you need it.  And that is the intervention we also hope to, to drill down and have  we have a  few types. This is at the high school but also at the middle school.  The concept in alternative programing credit recovery is to try to encapsulate in chunk your your recovery as you're not progressing almost in a, you know, so that that's a piece that that's the one that's a big focus of the one time money. We just haven't had time in people to do that. We also know that we're burning out our own  teachers using they're doing the classroom. They're doing everything. We also feel by having others come in and focus on those elements, that will be a strong, strong piece.
NEXT> Joshua: But we can't put 900 students in one academic.

[12315-308] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sorry you had said that the most at risk kids, that's why I.
TEXT> Yeah, but but all the kids can go through it as well. And the kids, I got to be honest with you and I let  let the principal speak about it. The majority of our students right now are not functioning at the way they were just a couple of years ago. So that's why it's all hands. That's why it's so aggressive in approach. But,  I wouldn't want a ballpark that I would. I would honestly say it's 30 or 40%.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's my question I have.

[12315-351] Unidentified | Unidentified - SAU 6 curriculum administrator (curriculum newsletter,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: So can.
TEXT> I just add something that I think will help people to maybe understand a little bit better and alleviate some of the tension around sustainability for this? One thing that we haven't mentioned tonight is the work that's that's also in the Esser funds for building the capacity at the elementary level around things like social emotional learning,  responsive classroom  building, teacher capacity. And so if you think about it in terms of as we kind of transition back to, to whatever will now pass as normal in the world, and as the kids age up through the system, we're looking at elementary students who, with a better foundational skills, will need some of these supports that you're seeing here will not need those as much. Right. So that  that's where some of that attrition comes into play. That is the students,  are better prepared as we close those gaps. And again, keep in mind, federal funding for Esser is specifically for learning loss. So it's not meant to to be sustainable. It's just this really lovely gift of money to be able to say, how can we work on closing those gaps?
NEXT> Unidentified: And the most logical way to do that? We spent a lot of time tonight talking about the high school, in the middle school, and what will need to happen

[12315-361] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1, former Claremont School Board member (self-I | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah, you.
TEXT> Patrick. Adrian Ward one.  So I guess my question is, who are the kids that we're talking about? Because I  don't know. You know, I,  I'm a father of a middle school student, and I'm a, you know, former teacher, and. We have kids right now  that are we talking about the the kids that, don't aren't showing up to classes?  The kids that that one, you know, the 1 or 2 kids that,  you know, might be in every grade level who are.  So they're just they're struggling so much that they are just distraught, disruptive in their classes. I guess I'm trying to understand what the kids are, because I think understanding who the kids are  does start speaking to how are these kids, I mean, or are these kids or we just need to get back academically on track and then they're going to go back in and problem solved. Because I it I think it is important to kind of find out is can this be a one year program. But I'm still trying to understand who the kids are  and is are the teachers and the administrators on the same page?  With this idea  about when they think about what kids need, this,  I guess those are important questions to ask.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Patrick. My answer do you would be all kids. If you're saying that your kids are affected negatively by the kids that are having behavior issues, if those kids would

[12315-362] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair, elected this meeting ('Congratulations,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Patrick Adrian: one year program. But I'm still trying to understand who the kids are and is are the teachers and the administrators on the same page? With this idea about when they think about what kids need, this, I guess those are important questions to ask.
TEXT> Patrick. My answer do you would be all kids. If you're saying that your kids are affected negatively by the kids that are having behavior issues, if those kids would be having issues, are getting help. Your kids are now getting the attention that they need. So it's it's targeted more towards that. Those kids that are failing and those kids that are struggling. But your kids, my kids, all kids are going to be affected if if the kids that are struggling are getting some now positive, attention from people and getting back to where they need to be. So I mean, to me the answer is yes. There are some targeted population that need this more, but to me, all kids are going to benefit from this, right?
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And I wasn't questioning the benefit. I just wanted to kind of get that understanding, because I think we're talking about the sustainability of it versus the, you know, is

[12315-363] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1, former Claremont School Board member (self-I | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: some now positive, attention from people and getting back to where they need to be. So I mean, to me the answer is yes. There are some targeted population that need this more, but to me, all kids are going to benefit from this, right?
TEXT> And I wasn't questioning the benefit. I just wanted to kind of get that understanding, because I think we're talking about the sustainability of it versus the, you know, is it something that can be kind of phased out or not? I guess I'm trying to understand that, but I think a big part of that ends up being who are the kids are going to be kind of going there because some of the kids,  yeah, it's hard to it's hard to say whether you could just how long it kind of really will take them to kind of get back on track. And then these might be kids that even though that things got worse because of the pandemic, these kids existed before.  And does this program then disappear? You know, based on the funding? I mean, I guess that's the thing is it become a long is it a long term need? Is it feasible to say that we can make it as a short term  solution to kind of get kids back on track and then let it kind of phase out? I don't know, I just but knowing what the population would be using, it becomes a big deal because you don't want to yank, you don't want to yank a program like that. If there are kids who need it and may need it longer term, it should it needs to be there. So that's.
NEXT> Unidentified: A.

[12315-366] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member, newly elected March 2022 (chair: 'I hav | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: I have Bonnie, then Josh, and then Stephen.
TEXT> So I'm thinking about on the financial end. I think this is great that we can help these kids, but there are other essay use that they're getting this money and what what are their questions. They must have the same concerns after a couple of years. What are we going to do. So maybe a good idea to speak with other superintendents and just bounce some ideas off each other? What are you going to do in a couple of years? But I think, I think we do need to give these kids the help. But maybe that might answer the question for down the road.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[12315-377] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Steven' before this v | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: It's Stephen.
TEXT> I'm kind of looking at this at where my big concern is, is there's a large amount of money being invested by the federal government. Well that's fantastic, but I'm looking at the return on the investment. I'm kind of looking at this like a two year CD where I have an expectation. And what is the administrative team who put a lot of work into this plan? What is the expected return on investment for touching all the kids that we've lost in getting these kids up to par? Are we looking at we're going to gain back 90% of where we've lost? Are we looking at gaining 100%? But I want a realistic expectation because if we're expecting somewhere below 50%, it's probably the wrong plan because we should be shooting much higher to get these kids back on track. So I'm kind of curious as to what the the modeling has shown for the return on this investment.
NEXT> Unidentified: I would say we're looking not only to get back to where we were pre-COVID. I, I would say we're looking to be much better. It's the $6 million Man

[12315-378] Unidentified | Unidentified - SAU 6 curriculum administrator (curriculum newsletter,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Steven Horsky: because if we're expecting somewhere below 50%, it's probably the wrong plan because we should be shooting much higher to get these kids back on track. So I'm kind of curious as to what the the modeling has shown for the return on this investment.
TEXT> I would say we're looking not only to get back to where we were pre-COVID. I, I  would say we're looking to be much better. It's the $6 million Man approach, right? You can build it better. And I think that's what we're looking at. We have an opportunity from a curriculum standpoint to put into place things that have not existed here for years, and to be able to give a structure and a wrap to the academic outcomes that haven't happened for a long time. We don't want to just get back to where we were prior to to March 13th, 2020. We want to excel. We want to to to be able to to make sure that the graduation rates are  dropping, that our kids are performing on the SATs and the SATs at a higher rate than they ever were, that, you know, simple things. Right? So the Science Advisory Board, we don't have formalized science curriculum in our elementary schools. And just being able to make that happen in September and implement something with fidelity to build teacher capacity so that kids can begin to articulate scientific questions and begin logic and reasoning at those early ages. That's going to make a huge difference by the time they get to middle school.
NEXT> Unidentified: That that already sets the stage for academic success. So to to kind of answer that, Steve, I'm not expecting a 50% increase. I really want 100% increase. And I

[12315-379] Unidentified | Unidentified - SAU 6 curriculum administrator (curriculum newsletter,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: happen in September and implement something with fidelity to build teacher capacity so that kids can begin to articulate scientific questions and begin logic and reasoning at those early ages. That's going to make a huge difference by the time they get to middle school.
TEXT> That that already sets the stage for academic success. So to to kind of answer that, Steve,  I'm not expecting a 50%  increase. I  really want 100% increase. And I don't mean that in a way that's flippant or  unrealistic. I just mean we we have  the bar has not been that high and we have an opportunity, if God willing, we can find the bodies. And that's the greatest challenge. That is our greatest challenge. And it's a challenge everywhere.  I'm teaching this semester. I'm at the high school teaching English. I have a counterpart who is a few towns over. She's teaching fourth grade on top of doing her job as assistant superintendent. That is the way  of the nation right now. So bodies are going to be our greatest. It's that human capital that's our greatest challenge here and everywhere else.  So it's it's that the lovely gift of money  is, is perhaps  not matching up with the bodies. But, you know, that speaks to the recruitment and retention of teachers and building that teacher capacity so that our teachers walk, into the building with skills that they feel supported, that they feel empowered in their ability to to approach the the students and meet the needs of the students. So, you know, I,  I think that's that's our greatest challenge is finding the bodies.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Having a public and then Whitney. And I think we're getting ready to move on from this topic.

[12315-382] Norm Blue | Public commenter, Ward 3 (continues directly from his self-ID [409-410 | 2022-04-06
PREV> Norm Blue: kid, and the kid gets the blame for being the problem and so forth and so on. And that will never get answered. Even when they're up on their 50s, they'll still always look back and say, Mom and dad caused my problem, you know?
TEXT> So  it's a problem and you've got to catch it early in the stage of the student.  When you start seeing that problem developing, that's when you've got to get a hold of them and try to change their whole mind as to what life is like, how you're going to do that. I haven't seen anybody yet come up with a good answer as far as  what you're going to do. You can sit down and bring the classes together and get somebody like Derek Furlan from up here at the county home and show them the other side of the coin, and hopefully it might change their attitude. But there's that's a tough subject to get into.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.

[12315-384] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member, newly elected March 2022 (second cluste | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Can I respond to his comment?  Sir, I, I agree with the spirit of. Everything you said, and,  I, I want to say this to kind of like, relieve some of your concern because I agree with what you're talking about, especially when, when we're thinking about the environment that these kids come from when they enter the school. And unfortunately, in our reality, the school itself, the staff, this ministration the school board can't necessarily intervene on the social and economic environment that the children come from, but we have an opportunity to make sure that they can fulfill their potential at the school. And I in my opinion, based on what I've heard about this program, that's what that's what this is intended for, in that we understand that there are many children in our community come to the like, enter the school house and facing a lot of challenges at home and outside of school. And the idea, my understanding of this program is to basically help us help them overcome the challenge that we can't solve for them.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: We can't solve their social or economic problems, but we can help them overcome the barriers that those create for them in the classroom through these enrichment programs, through these

[12315-385] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member, newly elected March 2022 (roll 'Whitney | 2022-04-06
PREV> Whitney Skillen: community come to the like, enter the school house and facing a lot of challenges at home and outside of school. And the idea, my understanding of this program is to basically help us help them overcome the challenge that we can't solve for them.
TEXT> We can't solve their social or economic problems, but we can help them overcome the barriers that those create for them in the classroom through these enrichment programs, through these academic centers. And from what I understand about the program, that's kind of the ideas that we we allow.  We create a form and an opportunity to empower students who may be struggling just at school and don't have struggles at home. Or maybe they are struggling at school because they're struggling at home, but we can still help them at school so that when they finish their schooling, they have done everything they've given their all they've they've met their potential, and we've given our all into them. And I mean, unfortunately, that's just kind of how it is. Like we can't intervene on the larger social and economic challenges these children face. And the idea for this program is to do what we can to help them face those challenges and cope with them.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Something very quick, Mike, I promise.

[12315-390] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: It is. Okay.
TEXT> Yeah, that's that's our intention to put that in the local budget. So that's sustainable after this. So that we we have that  with particular focus on the CTE growing that, getting that pipeline in. So we always have the kids  being exposed exploratory. The success Alex has had just with camps we should we're confident that's going to bring the numbers up. The expectation of okay.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: And my my last question, I just had one more question because I mentioned what Mr. Narrow said in that strategy that I asked you guys to put together. Could

[12315-394] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID 'Candace Crawford, Ward two' [85], ' | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: Okay. Candy.
TEXT> Thank you very much. Candy. Crawford, Ward two. Just 3 or 4 disparate comments.  When you talk about  retention of staff, question is do you do any exit interviews? I know those are timely. They take a lot of time. But even an applicant, a survey,  that they turn in before they get their last paycheck that that says why you're leaving the district. And I think that would be helpful going forward. Just so to give you some information  that you can use in in recruitment. Sure.  Second question  is, I see that you have a million for for  summer programs, and I am hoping that a decent chunk in there is  some efforts to recruit kids to come to summer school. I mean, my understanding is that it's very difficult to get kids to come to summer school because people think who need summer school, even though the kids love it when they get there. But I think that there's significant money needs to be put into maybe knocking on doors and getting kids,  signed up for summer school because I think that's that's very important. Third thing is, I really agree  with Miss Whitney's comment that $100,000 for visioning. Believe me, I'm all for the visioning committee. I'm very supportive, but I don't think $100,000 is needed. But that's just my opinion.  So  I guess that's it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.

[12315-416] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: For.
TEXT> Directly to the students.
NEXT> Unidentified: The scholarships.

[12315-418] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair, elected this meeting ('Congratulations,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: The scholarships.
TEXT> That go to the students.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's right.

[12315-438] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Because that's normally where those scholarships are coming in.
TEXT> So and not to  so the vote two is to replenish and it will still go to the students whether we have the banquet or not or how  we do that. I do know that that was it was discussed and I can revisit that because of,  you know, Covid and the parade and people not wanting to come back. I don't know specifically how they're going to do that. Some things have been altered, but I can follow up on that for the next meeting.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Any other? Seeing? None. All in favor?

[12315-571] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member, outgoing Chair (new chair thanks 'Frank | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: Gary, if you could move to the hall. If you. Thank you.
TEXT> And what I would like to see. And we attempted to see this before, but we really didn't get the data that we wanted to, at a retreat is, What? I'm what I had asked for, and I don't want to ask you in a lateral, so want to make sure that the rest of the board is in agreement with what? What I would like to see. And I'm talking about four different groups of kids. I'm talking about kids that are first, second, third, fourth grade that are identified and unidentified, that did not attend the preschool. I want to know how they're doing on some standardized testing. I also want to know how identified and unidentified first, second, third, fourth grade kids that were in the preschool are performing, and I'd like to see the trends on by the time they get to fourth grade. How much of a difference is there between the kids that were at the preschool and those who were not?  That's that that's what I would like to see.  I floated that to Mike to give him a heads up, and the other anticipating Mike was going to be chair and Heather was going to be vice chair. And you've indicated maybe sometime in May.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, I believe so, Ben. Ben has already worked on a lot of that data from the last time. And I, I think we're we're confident on that. Right, Ben.

[12366-18] Stephanie Hurst | Incoming SAU 6 literacy specialist from 7/1/2022 (onset of her remarks | 2022-05-04
PREV> Dr. Janeiro: running in the most prepared possible way for us on July 1st. So we're excited about her enthusiasm for the position. And, Stephanie, if you wanted to just say a few words, we invite you to introduce yourself. And right up at the microphone, please.
TEXT> I'm very pleased and honored to be. Offered the position as Literacy specialist for SA six.  I'm eager to get to work, roll my sleeves up and work along with the teachers to get the work done. I'm encouraged by the passion of the teachers, the staff, the children. I was able to work in the summer camp,  last summer, and I just have a heart and a passion for these students, and I'm eager to serve the community. So thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Welcome. Thank you.

[12366-24] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report and ESSER  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and in one of the the people that is targeted for that, that has interviewed for the position is a person we had on board who is associated with the tech. So it's it's all looking good for that. So we're in a positive place.
TEXT> There are high school again parallel situation.  We we copied this because there has been a lot of success with the campus aids, the disciplinary discipline  monitors and the like.  So they were already in the budget, so they were existing. You don't see them. And again, I tried to put the funds in there and we can talk about that in the totals,  but they are not in there, as the guidance counselor was, not because those are in the regular adopted budget that we have  the academic center. Again, this is this is a center that is going to piggyback off of the existing art art program, where we had one  former teacher in there who does amazing work already, and we're trying to push in  the same core academic class, science, math in English, so that we have support for the students and also so that we can grow in that, that you see the backslash there. For the alternative program, we already have all the elements of an alternative program similar to what we had before. Incoming principal Pratt has a lot of ideas of of restorative justice and a few other things to have these folks  trained in, and it's very exciting.  But the  the other elements of of any alternative program, how you try to intercede before there's it's a terminal situation with students, meaning that they've, they've failed to many semesters or portions of that they're losing credit.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: What we're trying to do. Also with these people who are going to be in the academic center is to have them working with staff or even hiring other people

[12366-48] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report and ESSER  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah. So that's why I'm questioning that. And are the deficits in the speech and in requiring codas and speech pathologist how are we linking that to Covid, the lack of access within the district or.
TEXT> Well, so we do have we have our fair share of identified students who are on, plans where they have it, and we have a fair amount of staff for that. But I think what was presented is there are a lot of things that we're seeing, particularly in the earliest levels in kindergarten and things like that, where particularly some of these students  who that we could push in and that we would have  not only would we have the speech in, in, in the groups and the tiered interventions,  together. And we would break that up. That's why there are six positions, three schools, and we rotate the teams in and out to, to have that right in the, in the schedule. But the but the interventions themselves to are of an academic  nature  in that, that is  that's how we set it. I don't know if we want to talk about how put Principal Lewis on the spot she's up.
NEXT> Unidentified: With or these.

[12366-71] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'put Principal L | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: So currently so changing that model, we would evaluate every student that comes through.
TEXT> Potentially the other piece of of it being part of a  a normal aspect of a kindergarten classroom, for example, would be that, you know, 30 minutes, maybe one time a week. I'm throwing out arbitrary times and numbers of, of,  lessons. That person could come in and provide some general skill in that area. And then those kids who struggle with that would kind of surface very quickly and could be then identified for some more intense services.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So if we're going to determine whether or not these programs are successful, how do we create a model or an evaluation process to track these kids over the next

[12366-72] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: out arbitrary times and numbers of, of, lessons. That person could come in and provide some general skill in that area. And then those kids who struggle with that would kind of surface very quickly and could be then identified for some more intense services.
TEXT> So if we're going to determine whether or not these programs are successful, how do we  create a model or an evaluation process to track these kids over the next two years to see if those interventions will drive us to actually maintain these four additional positions?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I can tell you part of the kindergarten screening process. For example, every incoming kindergartner meets with a classroom teacher, certified teacher with an occupational therapist or assistant, and speech

[12366-80] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (Frank Sprague: 'similar to what Whitney | 2022-05-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: of those kiddos that that we saw deficits in kindergarten screenings then went on to become identified through special education. We certainly would have that, you know, with some back work. But this would this would be you're exactly right. This would be very different.
TEXT> Okay. But it's good that we do have that, that screening data from historical screening data. So just trying to build together an analysis plan, we could look at the historical screening data, implement this program and then look at the kids are screened. Get the quick intervention. And how many of those end up to be identified as needing special.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: We did pilot a version of this many, many years ago. And what we and again, we did exactly what we're talking about now, with the exception of we're trying

[12366-81] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'put Principal L | 2022-05-04
PREV> Whitney Skillen: So just trying to build together an analysis plan, we could look at the historical screening data, implement this program and then look at the kids are screened. Get the quick intervention. And how many of those end up to be identified as needing special.
TEXT> We did pilot a version of this many, many years ago.  And what we and again, we did exactly what we're talking about now,  with the exception of we're trying to even  reach even more kiddos that potentially have that concern.  And so at dishonored, we had small group support for those identified on their screenings with needs in occupational therapy and speech language, and we were able to do some response to intervention. And then we were able we came back to the board and showed how many of those students that received that intervention then went on to identification or did not. And we saw good success with it. It doesn't mean every child is not going to get to the need of a special ed valve, but if we can prevent as many as possible because they get the need when they need it immediately. And we also know left untreated, those those things lead to bigger concerns for kiddos, particularly  speech and language in the area of reading. So if there's an if there's an area we want to intervene on right away in terms of improving our reading as reading results, it would be intervening with speech and language earlier.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[12366-157] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: So one.
TEXT> More and this is just and then I promise I won't say anything else.  Just to kind of pull into the we spoke about and retreat and Josh can probably chime in here is  one of my concerns was that our pears aren't where they where they could be. And,  that our pairs could be a lot more effective if they, were able to get the certification and training that would support them supporting our students more effectively. And I'll just chime in again that I would I'm hoping that we can put more money into our permanent staff to kind of get them where they need to be, and they're going to be around hopefully forever, or at least those positions will be. And if we increase certain standards that we can improve our academic achievement.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Any further comments? Questions? All right. Seeing none, I'm going to move on to the Claremont Early Childhood Center. Mr. Nester.

[12366-159] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Any further comments? Questions? All right. Seeing none, I'm going to move on to the Claremont Early Childhood Center. Mr. Nester.
TEXT> Was I supposed to prepare something? I think I'll just stay seated for this one because of the. Right. So, I'll just run through this. I won't spend a great deal of time on every single slide, because we see a general trend all the way through. If you've already looked at materials, but please feel free to jump in at any point with questions. And. And let's go here. Also, there's a, there's an appendix that's in your packet there with some reading materials. If you if you so choose that's, that's fairly lengthy. And again we can get into that to, to the extent that you know that the board would like so So,  at the request of the board, this is something we've talked about for a while now. We wanted to look at look at our pre-K program and use standardized test scores. And in this case, I ready to determine if students that attended the pre-K program outperform those that don't attend. And so for the sake of this, what I, you know, described here as a quasi research study, or a quasi experimental research design,  I refer to pre-K students or the early childhood students as attenders and those that did not attend, we call them non attenders.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So we we looked at it or I looked at it, in two, two forms. One, I looked at students that went through, a childhood and then, and then went

[12366-166] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: You.
TEXT> Know, I got it. And I'm a school psychologist by trade initially. So I can answer some of these. So I've been out of the field for a little while. So there is a standard error of measurement for every score that a child earns. And maybe it's a range of ten. So if let's say I'm let's say I'm Whitney Skilling and I are the 363 on a test on the reading test, you know that you could be five points on the high end or five points on the low. And that's sort of their statistical analysis of what what they would they could confidently say you fall within that range at some point. You know, I, I don't have the,  statistical intellect to explain averages and whether or not there's a legitimate statistical relevance here.  What I did do as a sort of a, as a lay in this case was just considering that there's a standard error of measurement for every child, and we have all of the child, you know, all the kiddos scores factored in here in average. I sort of made sort of a perhaps a faulty assumption that it all came out in the wash, if that makes sense.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[12366-203] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: At.
TEXT> When you're looking at data like this, depending on the students that were there that year. Because we do have a very transient population, right. It's going to change year to year. And we're only looking at a very small four years. It's really a stretch to call this longitudinal, but it's the best we could we could pull  oh here's so here's your total for students have gone through pre-K program overall not in tenders of outperformed our tenders in both areas. But total math and reading included. You can see fairly so this is the next way we looked at it, the 1617 group. And we looked at them as first graders and then as third graders because 1920 was not administered.  You see the same exact trend for all groups special Ed teased out. And then,  yeah, same trend all along. I'm not going to go through each one.  I will, I will say before we get into the discussion, part of this is that the  this is something that we know about our students, but our math scores tend to be lower than.
NEXT> Unidentified: Our readings, of course.

[12366-205] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Our readings, of course.
TEXT> Across the board. And that's consistent. And you can see the red bar is lower than the blue bar in every single cohort we pulled. So that's certainly information for our assistant superintendent as she takes care of our curriculum instruction. So the interpretation right.  We can say with certainty based on these results that overall, students that attended our early childhood program performed poorer on the spring assessment. And those that did that did not attend. So this is a very interesting thing, right? Perhaps you would have thought the opposite. Right. We gave child educational programing, exposure to a language rich environment, you know, regular meals,  things of that nature. So this is, you know, great pause. Certainly. So  just a couple of my thoughts here. This doesn't show that we close the gap entirely, which is a term we often use in education. You know, we these kiddos certainly went through and had programing, exposure to academic structures, routines. Again, language rich environments  and other things. So,  you know, they, they, they got some good programing and even if, even if you were to say the programing was was mediocre at best, you know, I think we can say with certainty that it didn't harm our students, right, that it's not the variable that caused the low performance, if that makes sense. Right.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So, so as I looked into this to try to make sense of the the data that was collected, I did find that our early childhood students do tend to

[12366-206] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: if, even if you were to say the programing was was mediocre at best, you know, I think we can say with certainty that it didn't harm our students, right, that it's not the variable that caused the low performance, if that makes sense. Right.
TEXT> So, so as I looked into this to try to make sense of the  the data that was collected, I did find that our early childhood students do tend to be more impoverished than our and our students. District wide. Our district wide free and reduced lunch numbers are 30 34.8% on average, whereas our early childhood students are 47.5% free and reduced lunch. And  while  while that's interesting, that's not the most interesting part to me.  You know, if you were to look at, say, Disney  Spring reduced lunch numbers, it's very similar. It's right around 47% last I look. So it's very similar. But I think the distinction this is what jumped out at me is that 42.8% of the students in pre-K qualified for free and reduced lunch under what they call direct certification, meaning they automatically in the state system by way of food stamps or section, you know, subsidized housing or things of that nature. Which, which puts them below the, below the poverty line. So there does seem to be an inordinate amount of, students that attend our pre-K that that do fall below the poverty line based on those, you know, just on those figures.  And then, you know, just just to point it out, if folks aren't already aware, there's a well known positive correlation between poverty and academic performance, right?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[12366-218] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Yeah.
TEXT> Right. So if 50% of our students in the pre-K program are special ed, does that correlate positively? Right. Or does that correlate to that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And then that.

[12366-241] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (Frank Sprague: 'similar to what Whitney | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Currently we have about four students, or we do have four students that you would, you know, describe as severely disabled and require one on one support for, you know, for safety or feeding reasons. And, you know, just being able to navigate the environment.
TEXT> Does that mean that there's only three pairs available for the rest of the student population.
NEXT> Ben Nester: In theory, but in application. Right. If if one of the one on ones student is in a safe place in their wheelchair, whatever the situation may be, they're also

[12366-323] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Nester: 'Frank' [501] after [493-498];  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Okay.
TEXT> Okay. I have a couple.  One is I'm going to push back at you on the poverty piece.  Because of the 36 kids that are in Head Start and those that's very low income to qualify for that significantly. I think it's something like 16 or 18,000 a year or something like that. It's very low income. So there's 36 of those kids are out there. So I think that kind of pushes back at the poverty being something.  So just if you could just tell everybody watching. Then again, what is the purpose of this program?
NEXT> Ben Nester: The purpose of the program.

[12366-385] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: plants a seed a little bit, but there's so many variables. I mean, the average, major change in college is 3 to 4, right? Something. So somebody heads down a field and then they take a class and they're like, wow, this is really great.
TEXT> Of the CTE students, the survey, the highlights were that students  are not sure what they're good at. And so we're not sure what that really means. Right.  Is that because they're not they don't feel comfortable in the classes or  they're still learning in that process. So you're talking about 10th, 11th and 12th graders. Half the respondents did not identify a career area of interest. And these are students that are in our programs. So what kind of transferable skills will be out there for them from what they get from us? And then,  most respondents do not have a good idea of what it takes to be successful. So taking some of that data into consideration, and I think Mr. Tempesta helped us with this. We got a career counselor, and the career counselor is in the high school, and they are working with students, doing presentations, working in the middle school and coming to the tech center, working with our students, either resume preparation, talking about careers.  You know, when I go to her and I said, tell me what you know, based on the students that you work with, what is the number one thing they want to do?
NEXT> Alex Herzog: She said police and military, those are the two that she saw the most. Kids say they had an interest in going into reasons to speculate why. Who knows at

[12366-387] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: to work through on those issues, and maybe those things we can change. So what other health science kind of programs can we think of here? And I've been working with Mr. Tempesta to see what what we can do in regards to those areas.
TEXT> One of the recommendations to deepen the core academic integration. One of the things we created was a tech English class. We used some Perkins funds to hire a teacher to kind of create that curriculum. The class hasn't been really taken off by the students yet. It's we had it designed for juniors or seniors, mostly for seniors to take that English. The Take English course would focus on understanding manuals, looking at industry magazines,  perhaps writing work orders, writing responses to incidents they may have inquired, things that they would actually use if they left here and needed to go to work. These are things that we talk about or I talk about with employers all the time, and the community when I connect with them. What do you need? What are you looking for today? I met with preferred building systems. Those were my questions to them as we walked around and got a tour.  What kind of employees? And we actually have a student that's going to be starting there  this summer. So that's a that's a good thing. We are connecting with our employers, and we are getting our students that have some skill that may want to go out.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: The, the we talked about night classes. We do offer some adult ed night classes. The last one we offered was a carpentry construction, and we just didn't have a

[12366-388] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: of employees? And we actually have a student that's going to be starting there this summer. So that's a that's a good thing. We are connecting with our employers, and we are getting our students that have some skill that may want to go out.
TEXT> The, the we talked about night classes. We do offer some adult ed night classes. The last one we offered was a carpentry construction, and we just didn't have a very good number with that. Working with Sullivan County, they were able to get a USDA grant,  I think it was $25,000 for each our center and Newport. And we want to offer these evening classes. So we've already offered a plumbing one, which  out of nine students, three of them got hired into the plumbing field.  Some of the students that showed up for that course wanted to just learn more about how their house works and what things they can do for service, so they didn't feel like they got taken advantage of. Now these were free to the community. We use TPI staffing to kind of vet folks. One of the other programs was our machinist program. We had Scott Polk come in. I had Doug Morton do the plumbing one.  The hardest thing is trying to get an instructor that's qualified during the day to also teach at night. And and  that is a different game. When I talked about getting the eighth grades in, we have some great ideas finding a qualified instructor that can teach it.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Just because I can operate a drone doesn't mean I can pass the background check and I can get a license as a teacher. So those are the things that

[12366-389] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: is trying to get an instructor that's qualified during the day to also teach at night. And and that is a different game. When I talked about getting the eighth grades in, we have some great ideas finding a qualified instructor that can teach it.
TEXT> Just because I can operate a drone doesn't mean I can pass the background check and I can get a license as a teacher. So those are the things that we have as obstacles, and that's something we're talking about. And then brought in work based learning opportunities. This is something that's  the state would like us to see do more. We have some challenges. Companies don't want our students unless they're 18  and our students are 1617. We get some that are 18 their their senior year, and they may be off to college, but we are looking for opportunities where we can  get them to do work based learning in the  industry that they may be learning their trade in. So there is that challenge. And then of course, with Covid, we weren't actually a lot of the companies closed down and we weren't able to get into them. So that that provided another challenge. So we just took a step back. The state does look at our labs as work based learning opportunities, because  in plumbing and machine these are places where they this is if they had to go fix a toilet.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: This is their experience and that's what they do there. One of the things we got feedback from our program advisory committees and talking to plumbers in the community. It's

[12366-390] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: So that that provided another challenge. So we just took a step back. The state does look at our labs as work based learning opportunities, because in plumbing and machine these are places where they this is if they had to go fix a toilet.
TEXT> This is their experience and that's what they do there.  One of the things we got feedback from our program advisory committees and talking to plumbers in the community. It's not always about installing the toilet, it's about fixing it. Right. There's a lot more repair in the community and a lot more repair work.  We had  Bonnie. It was in today. Thank you for visiting our tech center. Bonnie was talking to our carpentry students about what kind of careers other than going into one of our students is going to  pay, read Solier. He wants to be a computer engineer, great craftsman. So it'll be interesting to see how he transferred skills over. And another is going to be going on to Keene State looking at maybe working for their maintenance facilities down their transferable skills. But as Bonnie attested, hey, we need handymen or handy women or handy tradespeople that can go in and fix things, especially if we're looking at real estate and there's a deal on the table, but we need  stairs and we need handrails, things like that. And there's a lot of work in this community for students in that area. One of the interesting things from the suggestions for new programs, and this is something we've vetted with the  superintendent, a teacher preparation program was one of the highest ones that we saw  people were talking about.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We used to have the early childhood Ed program, but because it wasn't deemed a livable wage, they moved that to a teacher multi-level program. And with that, interesting. So

[12366-411] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: 16 credits. I need 20 credits to get my my New Hampshire diploma. I want to pick up four credits. We coordinate with you to take classes on Pluto. It's called Odyssey where? And they take classes and we monitor them as they go along.
TEXT> The high set is the one we're most active with. Those are students that come in and don't have enough credits. They're not going to get the 20, but they may have the capability of passing the high school equivalency tests, which, let me say publicly, is no joke. It's a pretty tough test.  Luckily, we've had a couple. We've had one inmate at the jail pass it this year. We've had 3 or 4, from our program that were ready to take it. We've seen one student walk in, says, I'm done with high school, takes the pretest which is required, did great on it and went right to the test. So it didn't really. And then if for those students that need training, we have classes twice a week, one in English and one in math.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I, I have information that says we haven't expended any of the the grant allocation money that was given to us and that the grant closes in June of

[12366-432] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: So which is a good thing.
TEXT> And then summer camps where we are planning that that's going to be launched. The,  the registration on Monday the ninth. And we've already kind of set that up so that we can send out our emails on it. We are looking at five programs this summer. It's a one week that we're doing it, and it's  for middle school students only. So any students going into sixth, seventh or eighth grade can take these programs.  Culinary is back. Robotics. And that's going to be Mr. Pope's going to help. One of our students that graduate is currently going to Clarkson.  We're looking at  getting her in to kind of spearhead that. She's getting her engineering degree at Clarkson. So I thought that would be a great fit for us. Annika is doing a career, one which will take students to different industries in the area. Last year they did 1 or 2 per day and it was very successful.  The school bus will take them around.  Carpentry, of course, where they're probably going to make some picnic tables and fun stuff like that. And then we're going to do a TV one.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Josh here, with CCTV, is going to put together a week long program for kids to learn how to do TV stuff. So some good stuff. So recently I just

[12366-433] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: they did 1 or 2 per day and it was very successful. The school bus will take them around. Carpentry, of course, where they're probably going to make some picnic tables and fun stuff like that. And then we're going to do a TV one.
TEXT> Josh here, with CCTV, is going to put together a week long program for kids to learn how to do TV stuff. So some good stuff. So recently I just wanted to share quickly. We had Epic Food Truck. This is Teacher Appreciation Week. So they came out and we did some,   haggling.  Mike Hammond came out and worked, gave out breakfast to all our students and to our teachers. And  that was on Tuesday morning. It was quite a nice event.  We did have the eighth graders come over into CMS. I tried not to. I couldn't really put a lot of pictures out about it because I have to get permission, because there could be a student that I did want his picture in it. So I'm just sharing that quickly with y'all. There's Nika right there, and she we showed the videos that we did last year, and if you haven't seen them, they're on CCTV. We tried to do them on our display boards, but they don't always work on it and they freeze everything up.  But we showed each of the videos. And really the big response  by students is that culinary program, people are really digging that  our students.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So when we asked, okay, so what's your favorite program? The students were going around. It was culinary, culinary, culinary. I want to cook. So what's great is that we

[12366-436] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: I would say here, is that it? Oh.
TEXT> So last night I don't know if you all I don't know if I saw anybody there, but last night  Maple Avenue had title one. Night and so I luckily my wife's a title one teacher, so I got roped into it, but it was a good opportunity. And so here I am working with young people. We had tape measures out, we had blocks and they had to measure the blocks. And surprisingly, I think I shared with you before some of our challenges in the plumbing with  Mr. Belanger is that students aren't understanding fractions. I mean, it's fourth and fifth grade math here. They are in 10th and 11th grade and they forgotten it. So we have Math Mondays. We're challenging. Them. To think,  surprisingly, this young lady picked it up real quick  and that this one was 4.5in the smaller one. Everyone was a whole number. I wanted to see if they picked that one up quickly. Then I made them do the half number and see where they were at at.
NEXT> Unidentified: With it.

[12366-461] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents the FY23 general | 2022-05-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: it also. So I have gone through each one of them. Three weeks ago, I probably could have told you what each one of the federal laws and the A's were. I, I'm sure I'm not going to be able to do that again tonight.
TEXT> It's all of the items that we are able to comply with. It's all of the items that we believe we're capable of complying with in order to get these federal dollars, but it's to bring it here tonight for the board to have had a chance to see it for a board, have had a chance and ask questions on it. And,  if appropriate, for the board chair to sign on behalf of the board and for the superintendent to sign as the superintendent and the primary person who's responsible for compliance with all of the concerns and laws?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yes.

[12366-520] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (leads pledge and runs the meeting [1-20] | 2022-05-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: years ago. So this year we're behind on this year because we're still resolving ones in the past. To be sure, we don't leave any cash behind against records that we have from those years, some of them perfect and some of them less perfect.
TEXT> So so I guess comes to the question of the general assurances for FY 2023.  I need to know if the board wants me to and sign on behalf of the board.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes. I'd like to make.

[12399-22] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1], answers  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: To the lady okay.
TEXT> Any further citizens comments at this time? Seeing none I'm going to close citizens comments. We're on to the student representative report. We have we currently have a new student rep. Our our former student rep.  Just couldn't fulfill the role anymore.  Just a little history. Hannah was selected as student rep, Hannah as my daughter. But it has nothing to do with me being on the school board. We reached out to the superintendent asking to fill to get that role filled so we could have a student rep here at our meetings who in turn reached out to Mr. Pratt.  Mr. Pratt, my understanding is went to the student council. Got some, I think three candidates that were able to do it and willing to do it. And from there, some of the staff administration,  decided and chose and selected one person. And that person was Hannah. So welcome, Hannah. Can you have a portrait prepared for us?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[12399-28] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1], answers  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Any questions for our student rep? Seeing none under the superintendent's report.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: All right. So my thunder there candy. So that's the first. The first item I had and you can see from the side is a follow up. But some of

[12399-37] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Stephen.' [442] and ' | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Sure, sure. Yeah. Good suggestion, I think we'll. We can also have summaries in kind of minutes of, of, of deliverables to talk about that.
TEXT> Could we get rough numbers of the percentages of the student bodies from each school that attended?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, yeah.

[12399-51] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: that, best friends all through elementary and middle school. Something happened the freshman year. It got to the point where almost every single day I had to deal with these two students. So myself and the council had a restorative meeting lasted about an hour.
TEXT> At the end of the meeting, they asked us if we could step out. I looked in, they were hugging. So it's there is that piece that we don't want them to be 20 years down the road, go back to a to a class reunion and not like each other and don't even remember why. So this has given them those opportunities. This is more what the approach is and what it gives sense of belonging, safety and most importantly, it gives a voice to the situation. It makes it a learning experience. And that's important for the students as well as the the staff. We recognize every student is having something important to contribute to the success of the class and the resolution of a conflict. And right now we're missing that it's their school. They should have a say. They should play a large role in regards to how things things are handled. And this is just  some of, you know, the multi-tiered systems of support. So this is where when we get into the restorative approach here before it even gets going all the way to the top. So a lot of you have seen this same kind of pyramid approach. We have the the red, the the green, the yellow and the red, the response to interventions. This is kind of the same thing, only it's the restorative approach in what it looks like because they all kind of fit together.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And these are the five we call them magic questions that we ask at every time we're trying to restore what happened, whether we're trying to restore relationships, we're trying

[12399-55] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: bugs, because every school is a little different in regards to how we go about this, once we work that out, then we go backwards and work with the middle school, because so many times it's the middle school first and the high school second.
TEXT> So this time we're trying just to back it up and go high school, middle school. And I've even done it incorporated at elementary schools, which is, you know,  but it has to be that backwards by design because then middle schools can go and work with elementary schools. It forms those relationships. So when they get to those different grade levels, they're already familiar with some of the students because they work with them in their own school. So  I'll leave it up to the board of the night. You want to to watch this?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah, sure. What's happening? For you? I want to catch up to Jack and have a bit of a chat to remember what was happening out there. And what do

[12399-60] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: last thing, and this is something that some kids like to do, and they shake hands as a way of being able to move forward together. That's something that you guys want to do. Yeah. Come on. Shake hands. All right. Fantastic. Good job guys.
TEXT> To war. And we actually did it one way at one time in Brattleboro. We had over 200 people in the school. Because there was something that happens in school that affected the community, and it was allowed for everyone to have a voice and healed. And that's why training is important. And that's part of the the plan is because it's not about the adult showing how upset he is or they are. It's about creating relationship with the students that they feel comfortable enough to share and respond. And so, you know that just just an idea of, you know, what I'm hoping to do at  Stevens High School. It's been very successful over the years. You know, there are different things you put in place also to keep kids engaged. One of the things that, you know,  myself, I came up with, along with my colleague who's still in Brattleboro, is that we said, well, how do we get kids to want to participate in the restorative peace because it's uncomfortable. And what options do they have? And what we came up with is that we use the, the, the,  the model of obedience, meaning? Look, you don't have to do it. We'd like you to do it, however, and the kids do sometimes, like, I don't want to do it, but once you throw this out to the parents, like, oh no, you're doing it.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's like, for instance, a kid, you know, you still have the typical discipline. You know, you got in a fight. It's 5 to 10 days. You get suspended. However

[12399-71] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Steven Horsky: How do we make it? Because I can't see where you could put a kid who's struggling in school into the panel. And I'm just thinking several different aspects of the whole thing, because you're going to lose common learning if they're participating in this.
TEXT> Yeah. Usually this is something that's done. We can do it during flex time. In some of those cases, sometimes we can do it after school. But I've used it with high schools as large as 5000 students and the student panels are made up. These are one of these cases where you don't want to talk to former students on the panel. You might want one just to add their perspective from their side. But most of the time you want people who have been there situation you want because and that's important to sometimes that's a result. I've had students who that was their resolution. They ceremony student family from someone who's victimized someone else. It's a learning spirit. And we're giving these kids an opportunity to take a leadership role. Unless you've walked in the shoes, it's really tough to come up with those ideas. So do we get bogged down? No, because it's not as many students as you think in regards we have. Plus we we try to train enough students where it's not the same panel that we're over again. We were evolving the panels and so it doesn't it's not a constant revolving thing.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: When I was doing it with in Boston with about 5000 students, I think we average maybe three a week. But it wasn't the same panel we had. It's a

[12399-81] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: So you promised to bring us some data on how it's going. Well, yeah.
TEXT> I'm a big data person. When I did it in the first year we did it. We had 450 days of out-of-school suspension and then I had to be served. Yeah, that increased our that. So we had kids who were staying in school and therefore our dropout rate went down. It didn't go down significantly, but it went down enough that we could see 1 or 2 kids each year were staying engaged because they took on a leadership role on the panel, or they were, or they're being recognized more positive in the school with the positive recognition they felt like. Because every time they turn around, these kids who drop out, they feel like they just be beat down one more time. We need to give them time to feel what it's like to be successful. Sometimes we get to loosen the you get a loosen at least a little bit and let them mess up and let them also feel what it's like to be successful, because if we don't know, we're going to feel it, never going to want it.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So it's it does change, really. It takes about at least three years to change the culture and building the trust of the students. And they know that this is

[12399-82] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: we get to loosen the you get a loosen at least a little bit and let them mess up and let them also feel what it's like to be successful, because if we don't know, we're going to feel it, never going to want it.
TEXT> So it's it does change, really. It takes about at least three years to change the culture and building the trust of the students. And they know that this is an environment that's based on recognizing kids positive and helping you when you fall down and not kicking you when you're down. Because a lot of times, discipline in schools, especially at the high school level, oh, you young adults, this you did this. You should have known better in some cases. Like do they really know better? I compare it to, you know, kids go through schools and they fail test. Well, you should have studied we're assuming they know how to study. And it's kind of the same thing we have. We can't make assumptions anymore, especially now with everything that's going on in the laps. In education culture, we really have to take people swimming what is going on in our schools with the kids and just come right out and ask them and allow them to make mistakes and pick them up, brush them off, hit reset and do it all over again, and hopefully they'll learn the lessons around the way. So when they do leave school, then making good decisions.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So I've got a question and I'll So kind of a two part question you talked about, I'm hearing you say probably roll this out next year. So you talked

[12399-86] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (second cluster: answers the ch | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: And how long before that trickles into the middle school?
TEXT> That's something I have a conversation with Frank. It all depends on how successful it is at the high school. You know, I never like to work backwards until we've worked all the bugs out and the kids feel totally comfortable, and it's kind of trained to the trainer kind of. So I would say, you know, at least another year, I think, before it trickles down to the, to the middle school. Unless it's but I would leave that totally up to the middle school administration. Okay. I know we've talked about it in there on board. It's just going to take time.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I've got Whitney and then Steven.

[12399-90] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Stephen.' [442] and ' | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: Yeah, because then we can work with the school counselors, the administration, social workers. We can still process with them how it made them feel and still ask a lot of the same questions. So we know, what they're still struggling with. Okay. Yeah.
TEXT> I pardon me, I can say from firsthand experience,  actually, the first time I met Mr. Brad was dealing with a, with a issue that would fall into one of these little charts. And fortunately and, well, unfortunately, at the same token, my student was the victim.  Handled it very professionally. But you can see where this program that he's trying to implement came into play in the way he dealt with the reentry of my student. I'm pretty pretty darn supportive of this program.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Thank you.

[12399-98] Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (presents Bluff's year [245-285]; H | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Mr. smol has queued up first.
TEXT> So my presentation is focused. In on. How. We approach family involvement this year and  as well as a little bit of student learning. Sort of a year in review. We had many events. It really averaged out to about once every month we had something going on for families or students.  At the beginning of the year, you know, we had to face the Covid challenge. So  we did that and sort of made sure we,  accommodated our events in a way that was Covid friendly. So open house, we had a family math night called math or Treating Thanksgiving feast, a winter enrichment, a kindness challenge, a book swap, walk your child to class, and most recently,  down in the Bluff Farm Family Literacy Night, which was title one sponsored. So to begin the year off,  we had our open house  virtual. So I have a video here that shows sort of a tour of our school so families could watch this online and see the faces of their classroom. Teachers see the classrooms.  And they also came out to the playground, and we had tents set up so they could actually physically meet the teacher and sign up for their virtual parent teacher conference. So, good statistic with that, as we had at 71% of our families sign up for the conferences. So it was a really great turnout.
NEXT> Baker: So the video here, it's about a two minute video. I'm not going to play the whole thing, but if you wanted to see how it rolled out, it was

[12399-99] Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (presents Bluff's year [245-285]; H | 2022-05-18
PREV> Baker: tents set up so they could actually physically meet the teacher and sign up for their virtual parent teacher conference. So, good statistic with that, as we had at 71% of our families sign up for the conferences. So it was a really great turnout.
TEXT> So the video here,  it's about a two minute video. I'm not going to play the whole thing,  but if you wanted to see how it rolled out, it was published on the website. It's our school that they could watch  virtually. Here just to kind of a few snapshots of them signing up for conferences, enjoying their ice cream. And we move into October with our math or treating family night.  Students were invited to wear the Halloween costumes to school, and we have math activities and games set up around our school yard. They had a passport that they visited to each station, and at the end they were able to, get a treat for a kind of like a trick or treat kind of thing. And all the kids got a free pumpkin to take home that was donated by a local farm. So you can see our  bluff pumpkin patch students and costumes and one of our math,  examples.  We didn't break it down by students, but  at count we had 180 people attend this event. Wow.
NEXT> Baker: Moving on to November. We got families involved through their donations. We had a school on Thanksgiving feast, so each grade level had a an item to donate. And then

[12399-103] Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (presents Bluff's year [245-285]; H | 2022-05-18
PREV> Baker: driving through with their family, we have the music playing staff are welcoming and greeting all students as they walk in. We have main entrance and the side entrance. It's just really a great way to set the tone for the end of the week.
TEXT> You know, some of those kids got some good dance moves and the families are smiling as they walk through. So that's that's our  dance party Friday. That's right. A couple months ago. And then lastly, this is probably our biggest event of the year. Down on the farm, down on the bluff farm, which is the family literacy night. We had literacy activities. We had a storyteller. We had lots and lots of farm animals that went along the activities associated with the farm animals.  We had a book block. A book fair was going during that time so they could purchase books for their children. Every student was able to take home a literacy kit with a free book, a bookmark, a farm animal,  leading up to the event,  I challenged them to read 60,000 minutes in a month, and if they did, I would kiss a pig. More to come on that at the at the event. And then also we have a,  Everybody Wins is a program that we work with, and they also donated a book for each student. So they're walking away with building a nice  library for a home. Oh, and just we had  250 people come. 64% of our students were in attendance, which I think was, pretty, pretty good success.
NEXT> Baker: Just want to take a minute. I'm not going to read everybody, but one great thing about this event is that we had a huge community involvement, so we had

[12399-104] Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (presents Bluff's year [245-285]; H | 2022-05-18
PREV> Baker: with, and they also donated a book for each student. So they're walking away with building a nice library for a home. Oh, and just we had 250 people come. 64% of our students were in attendance, which I think was, pretty, pretty good success.
TEXT> Just want to take a minute. I'm not going to read everybody, but  one great thing about this event is that we had a huge community involvement, so we had lots of donations from local businesses.  Between food materials for the event, we had the police and the fire department there. The police donated the meat and cooked for us,  a bunch of local farms for H. So that's our list. So they they were huge in the success of this. So again, some snapshots of the community involvement, the poster thanking everyone, the chefs going. These are some examples of some of the literacy activities  that is part of  these fabulous,  students were very engaged in a story telling and again, just the literacy activities that were associated with it. Some of the other animals that we had here, and they won their challenge. So there I am kissing the pig. And the kids were very excited by that. Yes. And I just want to kind of give a shout out to all the stuff, because they always go above and beyond to make these things happen for our kids and our families. So we have had a very successful family this year.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[12399-112] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Okay, okay. Thank you very much.
TEXT> Good evening. Dessner is next, and I have with me tonight our student service coordinator, Nicole Boynton. And together, we want to share  what the year Disney has looked like. And so our theme this year was all around together we All shine. Really recognizing that we needed to take this year to kind of regroup, re-energize and reengage with each other. So that was the focus. How do we reconnect with  even each other as staff members? We had some staff members doing remote instruction or reconnect with families who maybe had chosen homeschooling or remote instruction and really reset as a school. And what does it mean to work as a school? So does not pride.  We are all about Disney pride, and everything we do relates back to that and then resetting those expectations of be safety, respectful and be responsible. It took some time to get kiddos to what that looks like and sounds like and most importantly, feels like. So first and foremost, we do refer to ourselves as the desired family and families have traditions. And we had to think, just as  Principal Baker spoke, we had to think about how to maintain some of those traditions, but in a different way, as well as add some new things.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: First day of school. We start off as a family every year, and so we had to be mindful of how we could do that given some Covid protocols. So

[12399-113] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: refer to ourselves as the desired family and families have traditions. And we had to think, just as Principal Baker spoke, we had to think about how to maintain some of those traditions, but in a different way, as well as add some new things.
TEXT> First day of school.  We start off as a family every year, and so we had to be mindful of how we could do that given some Covid protocols. So we still gathered on the playground so families could at least say hello to teachers.  Students have their parents there as they make that first connection with their teacher, and then we would come in together,  open house. We'll talk about in just a minute. We actually did two versions. You'll only get to see one. And I'll tell you why. It's not a good excuse, but I have an excuse for that.  We did have several family events, and then it was also really important for us to connect to the greater Disney community. And how did we start to pull in some of those community,  members that we had been support, that had been supportive of us, and how did we get them with our kiddos? And this is one of those. So  you will find no greater joy than the month of October and Fire Prevention Month. So really serious topic. But the kids know the firemen come and so  they come. For our kindergarten first and second graders there is a coloring contest. This is the most beloved prize I think you can offer an elementary student.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And that is if you win, you get a ride to school in a fire truck with your family. And so that and you pull in the front circle of

[12399-114] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: and Fire Prevention Month. So really serious topic. But the kids know the firemen come and so they come. For our kindergarten first and second graders there is a coloring contest. This is the most beloved prize I think you can offer an elementary student.
TEXT> And that is if you win, you get a ride to school in a fire truck with your family. And so that  and you pull in the front circle of Disney in a fire truck, there is no greater way to arrive. And then you see Sully, Sully brings a lot of joy to Disney.  You know, as many people have said far more eloquently than I'm going to say right now,  the social emotional well-being of students, staff and families. We've been incredibly sensitive, sensitive to that this year. I don't know if you've had the privilege of meeting Sully. Sully brings joy wherever Sully goes.  And so he's been an integral part of of reactivating our kids to school and dealing with some tough situations. We also wanted to reconnect with our families. And we we are sensitive to the different dynamics that our families  face. And so we have our Tiger Times, which is our weekly newsletter that goes on to our on our new and improved website,  as well as  out through School Messenger to all families. Many of our teachers have embraced Class Dojo and use Class Dojo on a regular basis. Phenomenal way for parents to get real time information in the moment.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: A great math lesson that just went on. Teachers taking pictures of kids engaged in that learning. Post them to their dojo. Parents are seeing right during that child's math

[12399-115] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: our on our new and improved website, as well as out through School Messenger to all families. Many of our teachers have embraced Class Dojo and use Class Dojo on a regular basis. Phenomenal way for parents to get real time information in the moment.
TEXT> A great math lesson that just went on. Teachers taking pictures of kids engaged in that learning. Post them to their dojo. Parents are seeing right during that child's math time what they're engaged in. So there's no better alert to get on your phone than what your child is up to during the day.  And we try to keep our Facebook going with lots of  fun information about what it looks like and sounds like to be at Disney. The big thing is, we said to all of our community members and all of our family members, first and foremost, we're here for you. So we're there for you families. We're therefore you students. We're therefore you  community members. And so we took a look at student needs in several different ways. Academically, you're all aware of the challenge that we face academically with some of our students, given the the  upheaval, let's say, of the last couple of years, socially, we're seeing kids face some challenges that they have not faced previously.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And so we really needed to increase the amount of social support that we're providing to students. Goes right along with some of the emotional supports that they need. And

