[8884-273] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Unidentified: Welcome that opportunity if I just if I may.
TEXT> For a minute Mark Bridgeland,  I want you as city council members to know he and his staff have been remarkable for the Claremont School District.  We are strengthening that partnership. We're also we have certain things we have to do more of as well. But, you talk about the Claremont Savings Bank Community Center and the benefiting of the students or children of this community. Clearly, through his leadership and through our work as well,  that is that is strengthening. So I look forward to with our new city manager to to expand that even further.
NEXT> Unidentified: Great.

[8899-9] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Michael O'Neill: piece. But we're not losing that much because we're getting some of the money back to ADM. The bad part is, if we weren't losing that 212, we would actually be getting, you know, 300,000 more, which would be nice, but that's not the case.
TEXT> 8080 M  average daily membership. So we're talking about attendance, talking about students in school.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Right. And we're talking about free and reduced. We're talking about sped. We're talking about this language learners. So it's really important that we report all these correctly and get

[8899-126] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member | 2017-01-24
PREV> Brian Rapp: Alex, what do you think.
TEXT> I like? What how? Chris is thinking about the technology equipment warrant. In that it should be the responsibility of board to come up with that. But I also see your point in regards to  allowing the people to decide to. I think it's a get it  in a democracy. It's an opportunity for people to to vote on that. But I also know there's a real need for technology, equipment and that that's the future  of students. Young people work into technology now,
NEXT> Chris Irish: It's been my career. My entire life is technology. But, you know, you can we can get the bite of the apple twice. You can put it in the budget

[8899-213] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-01-24
PREV> Chris Irish: rate lower. We are still taking care of the most important asset and that is our teachers. If we don't do that, I don't think they're going to get it. We lose lose. I just, you know, again, I never thought I'd be that advocate.
TEXT> Just important asset is the children, actually. And I think the taxpayers and anyone alike will pay a little extra to have their children safe, secure and properly tended to in a school system. And next year, we're going to have to be fighting for people to pay taxes on more teacher salaries.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Nothing we've changed affects anything you just talked about. We didn't touch any safety, any security, any teachers, none of that. We've been able to accomplish what we wanted to

[8899-291] Jenny Desert | Art teacher, Bluff Elementary School, public commenter (surname as hea | 2017-01-24
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anybody that didn't have your questions answered. Would you like to come and speak? Okay.
TEXT> So thank you for giving me the chance to speak. My name is Jenny Desert. I'm the art teacher at Bluff Elementary School.  I would love to say that I'm excited that my job is still intact for next year, but, I'm kind of confused with what went down, so we'll just see how it all plays out. But I wanted to, talk on behalf of the specials and what it is that we actually do in the school system. So that way you're aware that it's more than just teaching a class or teaching an art class. And vice versa. So I wrote it all out because that's just how I roll.  And, we'll go with that. So our students deserve the best. I have written what I'd like to say to the board tonight many times, like a ton of times, I've approached it in many different ways. However, the common thread has been how this will affect our children and the impact it will have on their education.  So that is what I want to focus on. This town wishes for outlets for our students, ways for them to gain self-confidence and pride so they'll continue on a road to success by cutting the things and the people that empower them, inspire them, support them, teach them, and love them.
NEXT> Jenny Desert: You're in fact doing exactly the opposite. As a specialist in this district, I'd like you to be aware that I impact our students in many different ways. All of

[8899-292] Jenny Desert | Art teacher, Bluff Elementary School, public commenter (surname as hea | 2017-01-24
PREV> Jenny Desert: focus on. This town wishes for outlets for our students, ways for them to gain self-confidence and pride so they'll continue on a road to success by cutting the things and the people that empower them, inspire them, support them, teach them, and love them.
TEXT> You're in fact doing exactly the opposite. As a specialist in this district, I'd like you to be aware that I impact our students in many different ways. All of the specials at Bluff Library, music, PE, and myself impact the students in many different ways.  I alone, I teach art. This means I help your students think outside the box. I build their self-confidence, excite them to be creative. I challenge them to reach beyond themselves. I integrate the core subjects into their lessons so that they can learn in a different kind of way. Coming to art is not a scary place. Coming to art is somewhere where they feel successful in their every day. I display their efforts in and out of the school building. I make them who they are. I also teach math. I work with groups of children daily, adapting lessons to their levels and instructing them in a more one on one type of setting. We track their growth, and high five is a grasp concepts that have been challenging to them in their regular ed classrooms. I work with a classroom teacher to be sure that the students are on track and moving in the right direction.
NEXT> Jenny Desert: I teach reading, I work with a set of group set group of kindergarten students daily. I teach them to read. I celebrate when they recognize a letter, a sound,

[8899-293] Jenny Desert | Art teacher, Bluff Elementary School, public commenter (surname as hea | 2017-01-24
PREV> Jenny Desert: of setting. We track their growth, and high five is a grasp concepts that have been challenging to them in their regular ed classrooms. I work with a classroom teacher to be sure that the students are on track and moving in the right direction.
TEXT> I teach reading, I work with a set of group set group of kindergarten students daily. I teach them to read. I celebrate when they recognize a letter, a sound, and we dance when they master a book. I tracked the student's progress and prepare them for the foundation of their education. I teach technology. I helped to create and implement the curriculum that is being taught currently at our elementary grade levels in this district, from grades K through five. I work with children to better their computer skills typing, web, Google docs, portfolio building, hours of code, test practice, common sense, media, and computer knowledge. Those are all taught in my technology classes. This plays an integral part in their overall testing and data collecting. The implementation of structured recess. As a specialist, I help to develop how this works. Every day I'm outside with your students, keeping them engaged, active and reminding them how to be kind. I teach science as part of the Bluff School Science Initiative. I've carried out the building of the art aspect into the science curriculum. We as a bluff staff engage in science weeks, where every aspect of the child's education revolves around science in different forms, from building roller coasters for gravity to creating rainbow rainstorms in a jar.
NEXT> Jenny Desert: I embrace this part of bluff with both excitement and passion, by taking this position and turning it into a .82 percent position. You'll be taking away a lot more

[8899-294] Jenny Desert | Art teacher, Bluff Elementary School, public commenter (surname as hea | 2017-01-24
PREV> Jenny Desert: the building of the art aspect into the science curriculum. We as a bluff staff engage in science weeks, where every aspect of the child's education revolves around science in different forms, from building roller coasters for gravity to creating rainbow rainstorms in a jar.
TEXT> I embrace this part of bluff with both excitement and passion, by taking this position and turning it into a .82 percent position. You'll be taking away a lot more than just a few hours of my day. You'll be taking away small group math and reading instructions. You'd be taking away technology lessons, test prep. I ready support science lessons every time a child is sick. They need time to make up their work. That extra art time for students who are out sick that would no longer be their structured recess support, and above all, a consistent human being that cares for every single one of the children at Bluff Elementary School. I invested 100% to my profession, to my students, and to this community. I've made sacrifices to stay here, and I'll continue to do that as long as my position remains. My goal is to retire from Claremont, to have a career where I know I help children succeed, feel important and inspired. The students here deserve teachers that are vested in all areas of their growth, who support them and in and out of the classroom. From traveling to spelling bees, watching soccer games, helping a girl tie her hair back up.
NEXT> Jenny Desert: They deserve consistency, dedication, and teachers that are there for them full time. If cutting this position is based solely on the need to lower a budget, then I feel

[8899-295] Jenny Desert | Art teacher, Bluff Elementary School, public commenter (surname as hea | 2017-01-24
PREV> Jenny Desert: succeed, feel important and inspired. The students here deserve teachers that are vested in all areas of their growth, who support them and in and out of the classroom. From traveling to spelling bees, watching soccer games, helping a girl tie her hair back up.
TEXT> They deserve consistency, dedication, and teachers that are there for them full time. If cutting this position is based solely on the need to lower a budget, then I feel strongly that with the children as our focus that the board and our administration can in fact search out other methods of district cutting, other areas that will not impact an entire school of children to this degree. And that I thank you for listening to.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. Sure. What is your day look like? How many?

[8899-306] Jenny Desert | Art teacher, Bluff Elementary School, public commenter (surname as hea | 2017-01-24
PREV> Jenny Desert: But that's it's not like that anymore. When you're when you're a teacher, it doesn't matter what your title is, whether you're a classroom teacher or specialist teacher, you're all hands on deck. And I feel at bluff, we have the ability to do that.
TEXT> We're a smaller school in the sense that our numbers are a little less, but we're we're tight. We don't have as many paras as we need. We don't have as many technology teachers as we need. But that need has been filled by us, and it works and it's perfect. The kids feel comfortable coming to me for math intervention. They're respectful. They there's no they don't fear it. It's it's exciting kindergarten. It's amazing when they come in for reading because now I'm their reading teacher and on their art teacher,  and I'm out there for recess to see them like we're everywhere. We're a constant for them and for so many of those kids, that's what they need.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8899-323] Nick | Public commenter, Ward 3 (first name only on record) | 2017-01-24
PREV> Chris Irish: Somebody.
TEXT> I wanted to say I would highly encourage you not to do anything that impacts the arts in your schools, have represented the creative economy on the governor's task force, and have worked in the arts for many years. The arts have a huge impact on a child's life and is sometimes the most meaningful development of expression. You currently have a conduit for community children to express creativity and emotion on the side of  on the city side of things, I could have sealed in an envelope the prediction of the increase in arts in our community on an adult level, with makerspace coming online and the potential for spin off of artisan shops from that have had conversations with local economic development and economic development directors in Portsmouth. It would be important to shepherd all of those efforts, starting at a youth level, on a personal level, have had the experience or pleasure of the experience. The impact that Mrs. D as students caller, have on their lives. And I would encourage you now and in the future to not sacrifice anything to do with the arts to save a buck.
NEXT> Nick: That being said, I do have a question and I'm very confused at what just occurred, because it would appear to me that, you were trying to meet a number

[8899-343] Jenny Desert | Art teacher, Bluff Elementary School, public commenter (surname as hea | 2017-01-24
PREV> Unidentified: Motion to adjourn. Sure.
TEXT> Just a good one. In regards to  the, being able to maintain someone of a high caliber at a .82 percent position, I feel like what that would do would that would  we would have an amazing turnover in our district, more so than what we already have.  I know as an educator, as an art teacher, that what I'm looking for a position. I'm not looking for a point eight position, I'm looking for a full time position. And if this were to be cut  to that level, no matter which area it is art, music, PE or library, you're going to end up having someone come in to get experience for first one, two, three years and then they're going to move on. You're not going to retain teachers that want to be here. The teachers that you're retaining right now are the ones that are willing to go and do a little extra right now until the enrollment gets high, because they're willing to stick it out and they're willing to stay here in a community that they've grown to love. So to say that that is something that we need to look at again, I think that there are other choices and other things that we could look at, because right now, the staff you have are 100% dedicated to their students here. And I thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[8899-353] Jenny Desert | Art teacher, Bluff Elementary School, public commenter (surname as hea | 2017-01-24
PREV> Brian Rapp: Well I just it's, it's, there's more to it than just being upset with the administration. It's, it's the board. The board wants the administration to come in and give them their, their, their best, you know, what they think they could do.
TEXT> Well, I think that that you're viewing it as I'm I'm targeting it. I'm angry and I'm mad. I'm not. But I'm viewing it and I'm trying to present to you that in the best interest of our kiddos, to get someone that's going to stay in our district, that's turning that to a part time position.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's why we we negotiated the contract. We know that we need to get you guys raises.

[8899-360] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-01-24
PREV> Brian Rapp: I don't think they were directing that towards you or your positions. This is about the budget in general.
TEXT> Do it all over again next year. And who says we don't have the same conversation, but we have the same reasoning that we just had tonight where people come up and show us and, and, and the taxpayers have to understand at some point to that, that at some point they're going to have a tax impact, that that might look bad, but it's going to benefit the children in the end, because it's going to retain folks like you and folks like this and folks like that. So I applaud you for doing the extra that you do, because you have my grandson so  special to that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Another comment.

[8899-370] Rachel Nagler | Public commenter, parent of a kindergarten student (name as heard by A | 2017-01-24
PREV> Rachel Nagler: wanted to be her. I wanted to be kind and caring and compassionate and go out of my way to make people feel valued. And that's miss D, and I respect you guys having to stick to this budget and the state cutting your budget.
TEXT> And that's a horrible spot to be in.  And I really applaud you for trying to work through it, because it's a very emotionally driven thing when there's kids and not wanting to disappoint a town, but anything you can ever do to keep those positions full time,  to have that face that's been there for 14 years, that kids run to and talk to stuff when life gets hard. That's a really important person,  and I  strongly  suggest anything you can always do just keeping in your mind that you had that teacher. We have those teachers. We are so blessed in a school district that we are so strapped for money or we're down our luck. There's a ton of silver lining and she is right there like my daughter. I said, well, how would you feel if Misty wasn't your art teacher? And she drew a little girl crying because she said, she's a sunshine in my school. It's just her. And you can't teach it, you can't buy it. And I really appreciate you guys being so thoughtful to our students because as a mother, I'm not moving because she's here another year. And that is an amazing thing. So I greatly appreciate you guys working really hard  and giving all those kids a very amazing gift. I appreciate it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. For the last week. And my daughter had missed art because of delayed start. Yeah, tears on my shoulder. So you know it makes an impact.

[8948-3] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Here. And Frank has a family issue that he's tending to. So that is why he is not here tonight. I wish him the best. If he's watching. Absolutely. We have an agenda. Do we have any additions? If I if I may.
TEXT> Under Roman numeral six A, we have the Stevens High School youth and government delegation trip.  Nancy Lewis, Stevens high school teacher, is here to discuss that. I would ask that that be moved under an action item, and I would ask that we  address this first.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Yes.

[8948-20] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: who stood up and said, you school board members have to fix this funding thing. And in truth, it would be great if you could fix it, but in truth, you really have limitations as far as what you can do with the funding thing.
TEXT> But to me, that was an indication that we need to communicate more with with our with our faculty,  and it really isn't their fault or that that colleagues fault that they did not understand the dynamics. And so I was thinking, perhaps  during the course of the budget process for fiscal year 19  will involve the faculty more and involve the students more in the community more, not expecting them to come to a school board meeting, but rather to have presentations available to them. And on the backside, efforts to improve governance includes communication. Students at the table. More than just one student representative. Intentional engagement not just making school governance accessible, but rather going to to the faculty, to the community, to our students. So I'm very interested going forward. And after experiencing this past budget process, I'm very interested. And I've talked to the building principal two weeks ago, and we're going to continue this discussion.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: How can we do things differently to improve our ability to communicate? How can we do things differently, not to fix the world, but to be sure everyone understands what

[8948-25] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So it's about communication, and it's not necessarily someone's fault, but it does require a commitment. And I look forward to continuing that discussion with you, with the students, with faculty like Nancy Lewis and the administration and the community. I think that's going to be it's going to be important because our school district, this school district isn't the school boards, it's the communities. It impacts students, it impacts our faculty, and it impacts the incredibly young looking superintendent of schools.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Well, I thought you were going to be factual. Well, it's it's interesting because, obviously it it's not it's not a good thing, but we're not the only school district

[8948-32] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Chris Irish: right, is to develop a mandatory curriculum that would give us civics credit. That literally is a local civics course on Claremont Politics, for lack of a better description, but covers state, city, school board, council, county and all the pieces that go with it.
TEXT> You know, we can start with the kids in the high school to educate them and maybe turn that into some kind of an adult Ed. But if we start with the kids in the high school and get them through that program, I know that's going to spread out to the community. But, you know, I've been around a long time in this. And the one thing we always come back to, it's amazing. People have lived there their whole lives and don't realize what we have for governments that it's not just everybody controls everything. It's schools, school, city, city, state, estate, council, counties, county. So I think  I would love to see us really take a hard look at a one credit, two credit course that does nothing but work on the politics of Claremont, and maybe even get something at the college that we could get free to adults that want to attend, you know, maybe even something before you run for an office to go through. That, to me, is the biggest hindrance I've seen as an elected official forever is that that lack of understanding of how things work, we know what we live at. Once you see it, it's a very different animal, and usually people that don't understand it who have issues when they sit at this table, they realize it's different than what you think.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So I just I think that's a pressing need. I'd like to see a find a way to do that, at least in the curriculum, right out of the gate

[8948-35] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yeah.
TEXT> I was going to say something similar to what Chris was saying. And yeah, there are things that we need to do in terms of communicating better, but when we're looking at the picture and  I don't care that it's I know it's not just a Claremont issue, but it's a concern nonetheless. We see less and less people voting and a big reason for that. You know, there are a lot of us who are raised with we're raised by our parents. You voted no matter what, and that's disappearing.  I'm worried that and I'm not talking to any particular school district by being school districts. While I'm seeing fifth and sixth graders, you know, presenter comes shows a picture of a photograph of, you know, President Roosevelt, you know, there's a photograph and asked him, you know, you know, this president, you know, the kids, the only presence they can name, they're saying George Washington, John Adams, they there's the history.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: You know, I feel like history. I know that that we're, you know, we're reading and writing and and math there the what's being pushed. I'm seeing schools. The history

[8948-36] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: shows a picture of a photograph of, you know, President Roosevelt, you know, there's a photograph and asked him, you know, you know, this president, you know, the kids, the only presence they can name, they're saying George Washington, John Adams, they there's the history.
TEXT> You know, I feel like history. I know that that we're, you know, we're reading and writing and and math there the what's being pushed. I'm seeing schools. The history is tanking and you lose that and you lose those connections by their coming into high school. Yeah. We need to focus on the civics. And I think one thing, instead of just us bringing information to them, I think it would be more meaningful if we focus on, you know, project based learning, finding ways to make the curriculum that engages them and teaches them about the process and gets them involved in something tied to civics, where they're doing the work and for something, you know, for an initiative that's important to them. And doing that work and getting them involved, because I think they'd have a lot more incentive doing that than if we're just coming, showing their presentation, because this would be a class. And that I think that's another piece, that really it's got to come from an education because, yeah, we have to communicate better. But one concern I'm seeing is that people are not engaged, you know, trying to you can send all the information out, but they're not listening until it's too late. And that's something that's got to change because that's affecting the kids too.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, I think to Marian's point is you got you've got to give them a reason to care that they know their voice is going to be heard. And we

[8948-38] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Chris Irish: time, but it doesn't seem to materialize in engagement and ownership. And that's the key, is how do we do that? So I think, I think now is the time for a good discussion on how we fix that. At least get moving on it.
TEXT> Did you have more for your report? Said thank you. Any other questions for the superintendent? We are going to skip. We're going to go right to we're going to jump around a little bit, go to an action item. And that is for the Stevens High School Youth and Government delegation trip.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Yes. Nancy Lewis Stephens High School, social studies teacher and youth and government advisor is here this evening. In your packet, there's a memo dated January 12th, 2017. And Nancy

[8948-39] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: thank you. Any other questions for the superintendent? We are going to skip. We're going to go right to we're going to jump around a little bit, go to an action item. And that is for the Stevens High School Youth and Government delegation trip.
TEXT> Yes. Nancy Lewis Stephens High School, social studies teacher and youth and government advisor is here this evening. In your packet, there's a memo dated January 12th, 2017. And Nancy Lewis will will speak to that. Welcome, Nancy.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: Hello, Brian. I'm also a teacher and student. At the Centennial Educator. With. Saint-Gaudens, the National Park Service and the Wellborn Foundation. I was hired by them. It's a grant

[8948-56] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yeah.
TEXT> I think this is a great program. I've always loved it. And I was fortunate enough when I was a state rep. I was there when it was happening. And it's it goes back to what we were just talking about. To me, getting the kids involved in, in the reality is how it worked. Yeah, it's awesome to watch. And honestly, with some of this stuff they've written and I'm sure they could write, I think some of our current reps could probably take a few pointers from, be quite honest, you know, because but it is it's a it's really cool to watch them experience it firsthand, to learn from it.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: Just like you have a student representative on your on your board so that you can hear what students are thinking. That's why the legislature really does pay attention and

[8948-93] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Please.
TEXT> I will. And while I'm up here, I just. Also, I failed to share this with Marion. This coming to day  the seventh, we're going to have 40 to 50 high school students go with the new chief of police, chief Chase.  Well, chief Chase was there today. Actually, it will be our SRO. Crystal Simons will be going. Jan Furlan and John Silva Johnson. Paul Silva will be going with about 40 to 50 students for an all day conference on the opioid crisis. And they will be in a session which will talk to them as current and future leaders at Stevens High School  about what does addiction look like, what how does it affect one's community? What does it look like in a school? What does it look like in a family?  And with the purpose of empowering students so that they can identify the signs of addiction, identify the causes of addiction, understand their own place  and decision making around being when surrounded or, brought to the attention of drugs and how to empower our students to help other students and or family members who may be victims of addiction. So we're really excited about this, and very thankful to Claremont PD for being willing to kind of spearhead this for us and, and go on this trip with our kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: So that's.

[8948-100] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: to come up and talk about how they are responding in their individual buildings to this data, because data is great, but if we're not doing anything with it, then it's just another, thing to collect dust, I guess, for lack of a better description.
TEXT> So our goals have really shifted to  not focus primarily on just where students arrive at the end, but how much have they grown along the way? So our goals that you've heard for a couple of different times this year are focused on growth. And we had identified prior to using I ready some growth targets,  because we haven't used I ready before now and because we were predicting,  without any data reference points. These are the growth targets we came up with. I think we will likely be adjusting some of these as we move forward next year, but these are our targets for this year. So we have essentially said that for K through five students and it's for all intents and purposes is really one through five. Our kindergartners don't take the assessment. We are looking for 70% of our students to meet their growth target in math and 80% of our students to meet their growth target in reading. So that's what this chart represents, grades six through eight, 85% of our students meeting their growth target in math and reading and in grades nine and ten, because we only test nine and ten now, adding 11 next year.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: 80% of our students meeting their growth target in math and reading. So that does not necessarily mean they end the year on grade level or end the year proficient,

[8948-101] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: their growth target in reading. So that's what this chart represents, grades six through eight, 85% of our students meeting their growth target in math and reading and in grades nine and ten, because we only test nine and ten now, adding 11 next year.
TEXT> 80% of our students meeting their growth target in math and reading. So that does not necessarily mean they end the year on grade level or end the year proficient, but it means that they've made at least a year's worth of growth in a year's time, and they're meeting their growth targets. I ready has identified what is expected growth in a year for any given student. So the next slide is just a chart of what those growth targets are for your reference later. We're not going to spend a lot of time on that. But they do define for each grade level what expected growth should be. And as you see  it. Has larger numbers earlier on. And then they get smaller and smaller and smaller over time. So expecting  a larger amount of growth on the scaled score in the beginning as opposed to later in their learning. So student growth by grade level. Here's our data for grades one through five. So we saw the target. In math of 70% of our students.  And right now for the mid year, which is the middle column,  we have. Anywhere from 57 to 66% of our students making that half year growth target. So our goal is 70%, and we're 57 to to 66% right now in math, we have some students who have already met their end of year growth target.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So they've already had an entire year's growth in a half a year. And those are the students potentially, who are really making gains. And we're closing the gap for

[8948-102] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: we have. Anywhere from 57 to 66% of our students making that half year growth target. So our goal is 70%, and we're 57 to to 66% right now in math, we have some students who have already met their end of year growth target.
TEXT> So they've already had an entire year's  growth  in a half a year. And those are the students potentially, who are really making gains. And we're closing the gap for those students, From 20 to. 31%, depending on the grade level, who have already met those end of year targets. Middle school and high school, middle school had the growth target of 85% of their students and high school 80%, and we're in the 34 to 49% range for mid-year meeting that mid-year target. And again, we have some students who have already met the end of year target. So,   our current goals  at the elementary level are we're a little closer to meeting our elementary goals and our middle school goals, I think will analyze the elementary goals at the end of the year, like we will with all of them. We may choose to adjust them some we may not choose to. I'm guessing that we're going to choose to adjust our goals at the middle school and the high school level.  Because you want goals to be  not unrealistic. You want them to be a reach and attainable.  But not so far off that, you know, you're not really able to see progress.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Just from a clarity, say, the 23% that have already met at the end of year target, is that included as part of the 41% that have met mid-year?

[8948-111] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Correct.
TEXT> And we had some actually some internal conversation about how to represent those. So it would be clear, but 41% of our students have made the half year growth target and a half years time.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[8948-117] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: Because I would like you to hear how different schools are responding to the data right now. And then we can revisit that question at the end, if that's all right. Sure. Can you just jot it down so you don't forget to ask later?
TEXT> One quick question.  So when we're talking about student growth, are these individualized. Growth targets.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Or they they.

[8948-121] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Grade level okay.
TEXT> They're not individualized okay. Does everyone understand what that meant? Okay. Reading elementary I think our target is our goal is 80% of our students. And right now we're in the 50 to 73% range depending on grade level. And again we do have some students. Grade 250, almost 50% of our kids. And in grade five, 50% of our kids are already meeting their end of year growth target, which is that's exciting. It's not the full picture. It's not perfect, but it's it's exciting.
NEXT> Unidentified: I have a question. Yes. When you say that they're meeting it 50% at the end of the year, is there something in place to keep them from being bored

[8948-123] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: I have a question. Yes. When you say that they're meeting it 50% at the end of the year, is there something in place to keep them from being bored at that point?
TEXT> It's not saying they are. So we're talking about how much they've grown. It's  it's not talking about are they proficient. Are they on grade level or anything like that yet? I have other slides to talk about where they are at in terms of where ultimately we'd like them to be, but we know we have a lot of students who come in. And, and who we receive that don't have the skills that they need. So I remember looking at data last year, and one of our elementary schools, I think we had of the proximately 50 students in first grade, eight or more of them were in the first percentile when they came to us.  So to think that they're going to reach grade level proficiency by the end is not realistic, but they can demonstrate a lot of growth. So right now we're only talking about growth  and how much growth they're making in a year.  Our job as a school district really is to guarantee at least a year's growth in a year's time.  And in some places we've exceeded that. In some places we've met that, and in some places we haven't met that with some of our kids yet. And that's for us to identify and then get better, to get better at.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Similar trends with middle and high to follow on. On Brian's question, fewer of our students are making those growth targets, at the mid-year. And however, we still do have

[8948-124] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: in a year's time. And in some places we've exceeded that. In some places we've met that, and in some places we haven't met that with some of our kids yet. And that's for us to identify and then get better, to get better at.
TEXT> Similar trends with middle and high to follow on. On Brian's question, fewer of our students are making those growth targets, at the mid-year. And however, we still do have some students who have made the end of year growth targets already at the midyear point.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Well, it's it's weird because a large a majority of the students that are meeting the midyear target are the ones that have already made the end of year. There's

[8948-125] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: trends with middle and high to follow on. On Brian's question, fewer of our students are making those growth targets, at the mid-year. And however, we still do have some students who have made the end of year growth targets already at the midyear point.
TEXT> Well, it's it's weird because a large a majority of the students that are meeting the midyear target  are the ones that have already made the end of year. There's not there's not a lot of room between the two numbers.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[8948-138] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: No, it makes sense. I think it was almost something I'm kind of processing kind of aloud. But.
TEXT> So if you're a child were in one of our elementary schools and took the I already assessment, they would get an individual student report and they would have their own information on there about where they are at currently, where they are expected to be their growth trend. The more assessments they take in I ready,  the more accurate those targets will become as there's more data points to substantiate what the information is saying. But at this point, we just looked across the grade level because we've only taken two assessments so far. The fall was the very first one, and this is our second one in the winter season. And so we don't have the depth of data yet to be able to look into that more. And we also, again, to do it at the individual student level, to get the variety and growth targets that you would actually see based on the individual student. To aggregate that into a presentation, this is what you would end up seeing as growth targets for the grade level. So we've talked about growth. Now this sort of moves more into the proficiency discussion. And this is how many of our students are on grade level versus not yet on grade level. So the lighter blue is the.
NEXT> Unidentified: Fall.

[8948-140] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Fall.
TEXT> And the darker blue is the winter. And it's the percentage of students who are on or above grade level. So this is where I have to do the the  culpa. When we talked about I ready the first time  I had toggled the switch in the system to look through a different view at the data. So the numbers I was showing you the very first time included all of those students who are up to one year behind. So you can either include those students who are up to a one year behind in the below grade level, or they on grade level, depending on which view you look through, which I didn't know at the time. So I, I wasn't intentionally giving you an accurate data, but it's just a matter of where you categorize those students. So in this I now know how to view the students. So it's going to be the same thing consistently every time we show you data from now on. And so these are students who are on or above grade level for each of these areas in the fall in the winter assessment.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[8948-144] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Melissa will go first.
TEXT> Before Melissa starts. I just want to make something clear. Our objective is to be as transparent as we can and forthcoming as we can with data and at the data or the. The data does not really show what we are hoping for. That's an opportunity to ask many questions about what we're doing, what our students are doing and going forward. So, this is basically a work in progress, but you'll never hear the Claremont School District shy away from data and will be as clear as we can. If we're not pleased with the data, what our response will be, because school improvement is a process and we have a great commitment to this. And talking individually with the building principals, it's remarkable how  they are not just working with this data themselves, but are working with their faculty as well. So it's a it's a it's a school initiative, not an administrative initiative.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: So as Corey said. Earlier, it's great to have all this data, but what do you do with it so that it's not a waste of student time or staff

[8948-154] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (surname as heard; resignation acce | 2017-03-01
PREV> Michael Lansing: my school. They were the highest grade level that was on on grade level, if that makes sense. So they had the most kids who were on or above grade level, but their growth was really it was really small compared to my other grades.
TEXT> So for that grade level, we kind of changed who was teaching the students who scored high but didn't have that growth level that we had? It's kind of a change to our normal procedure. So what we did is we took a large group of kids who scored exceedingly high, who are on grade level, but didn't have that growth percentage that we wanted to. They're going to work with one of our more qualified teachers to kind of bump those scores up. That's something unique that we would do that's kind of outside the box, but we're doing it because the the data that we have said, hey, you have this group of really bright, wonderful kids who aren't growing the way you want them to grow. How do we change that? What do we do? And so we took action and we're doing it now. I also want to make sure that our reading our that our eye ready time is to as close to as what the eye ready program recommends. There are some kids who who meet that every week. There are some who don't. So we make changes. We make adaptations to make, to do our best to get those kids, to get on the computers, to do their individualized lessons as close to what's recommended as possible. Sometimes that means they're doing it in the morning. Sometimes that means they're taking a chunk of technology time. It kind of depends on each kid.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: But one of change we want to make is to get them close to that. The last thing that we do to improve our test scores and to get these

[8948-155] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (surname as heard; resignation acce | 2017-03-01
PREV> Michael Lansing: those kids, to get on the computers, to do their individualized lessons as close to what's recommended as possible. Sometimes that means they're doing it in the morning. Sometimes that means they're taking a chunk of technology time. It kind of depends on each kid.
TEXT> But one of change we want to make is to get them close to that. The last thing that we do to improve our test scores and to get these scores up is, there are some grade levels that have pretty significant behavior problems. So we are taking a more aggressive, harder look at those kids, to, to make the learning environment  better for all, including those students. And so I work with whoever I can to help me, whether it's a special ed director Middleton, who knows whatever that those kids need. I want to make sure that each kid has the best opportunity to learn and has the best opportunity to learn in the the safest, most appropriate environment. And so we  take action on that too. So for bluff, it is heavy use of data through our RTI system. And we do that through our PLC meetings. That's when we figure it out. Once a week we all meet, try to get kids on I ready as much as the eye ready system recommends, and then make sure our our behaviors at our school are, as curved and as appropriate as possible to get the kids the best opportunity to learn. And hopefully by kind of tweaking those and changing those and putting kids in the right groups and getting kids on the computers at the recommended level, our scores will continue to rise and to get to where we want them to be.
NEXT> Dan: Maple, we have a lot of similar approaches as the other elementary schools at Maple, though we really haven't dug deep yet in the data. Our, our staff hasn't had

[8948-157] Dan | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School (first name only on record,  | 2017-03-01
PREV> Dan: data that comes out of this. That's that's number one. Just enormous amount of data. But we're noticing like I ready tracks the amount of time that kids are logged on to the system, but also the amount of time that they're actually on task.
TEXT> So as we're going through this data, we saw a lot of kids, hey, yeah, they're getting their time in. And then you look at their on task time really, really low. So you know the questions are coming out. Do they need more supervision. Are they you know because we have a model right now where it's currently, 5 or 6 Chromebooks in the classrooms and kids are being circulated through as a learning center. But are our grade levels and our all of our kids able to do that independently or not? Our data suggesting maybe that's not a good choice for us right now to have them do that independently.  So now what do we do about that? Right. How do we how do we either use personnel or technology or those time blocks differently to have kids with more supervision? So, you know, our, our we're having these pretty fascinating conversations. We only have two data points. Teachers have been able to see their own data. And I know that there's been a lot there. I mean, we do we have we have some kids who have who have grown 70, 80 points. And I will also suggest, though, that we have very few kids who are getting the 90 minutes of time per week, 45, 45, in each content area.
NEXT> Dan: So how else could they be growing? Well, I guess that comes down to our teaching, right? So if I ready kind of guarantees this kind of level, if we

[8948-158] Dan | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School (first name only on record,  | 2017-03-01
PREV> Dan: mean, we do we have we have some kids who have who have grown 70, 80 points. And I will also suggest, though, that we have very few kids who are getting the 90 minutes of time per week, 45, 45, in each content area.
TEXT> So how else could they be growing? Well, I guess that comes down to our teaching, right? So if I ready kind of guarantees this kind of level, if we can commit this much time and we know they're not, we're not there yet.  But we have a lot of growth, especially from our students who are really struggling learners. It means instructional. We're doing something really good at the classroom level, but if we could just really blend, what I ready says is use this time. This is the statistically amount of time that makes the greatest impact on kids, and figure out how best to carve that out in the day, because it's that culturally is not how we're used to doing business, giving up our kids 90 minutes a week to technology intervention. So those are the things that we're balancing out at Maple Avenue now, and we're just really trying to get ready to emulate more of what's happening at the other schools about getting at the individual kid level in all those conversations. But that's that's not where we're at yet.
NEXT> Unidentified: Hello.

[8948-166] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Hi.
TEXT> So the high school's way of testing the populations that we tested and where they were in their math and English curriculum is different from any of the lower grades. And I'll explain that. So the way we made a very deliberate and intentional decision going into this year that knowing that some students take math in the  fall, some take it in the spring,  some for some reason may not have it in either, or they may be taking it on a V lacs. Same thing with Ela, but we're testing them in both areas three times a year. So we made a decision first year through that we were going to test all our ninth and 10th graders three times this year, regardless of whether they were currently  in a math or English class, because we felt that we were going to get some pretty valuable information from that. That would help us to see what their scores looked like if they were in a math or in English class, or if they weren't. Because we've had this conversation for the last two years about what does gaps, what do gaps do or don't do to the retention of information with our students? So we thought we would take advantage of this opportunity.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And then at the end of this year, disaggregate those who were in a math class warrant in English, warrant, look at their growth when tested at those times, and

[8948-167] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: English class, or if they weren't. Because we've had this conversation for the last two years about what does gaps, what do gaps do or don't do to the retention of information with our students? So we thought we would take advantage of this opportunity.
TEXT> And then at the end of this year, disaggregate those who were in a math class warrant in English, warrant, look at their growth when tested at those times, and then use that data to either support or not support a current 4x4 system. So also the instructional we only test the ninth and 10th graders. The instructional component for I ready only goes through the eighth grade. So that helps our students who are below grade level in the instructional piece. But we don't have the use of the instructional piece for all our students. But it is of significant help to those who come to us below ninth or 10th grade level. So for example, we, Christine Downing divided, I think the ninth and 10th graders into to group A through A and Group E, which included students who were not currently taking either a math or  an English class, represented 22% of our students. So when you look at those growth numbers, and I saw the look in your eyes is, you know, why or why are we flatlining here?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It's going to be frustrating because.

[8948-175] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: There's no really way of knowing.
TEXT> Right? So especially those winter results you're looking at.  And for math, it was really heavily loaded. Our students in ninth and 10th grade or heavily loaded into their math classes in the spring. So many of those taking that math assessment will not have had a math class for seven months, so it's not surprising they're going to not show growth. It's kind of amazing that they didn't show more regression in some ways.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Well, they have taken their in the math now.

[8948-187] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Exactly.
TEXT> So I think this year, while it's not going to be pretty up there, it's giving us really valuable information about the whole retention piece and gap piece. Another difference is that we're testing our students outside their classrooms. So we're we're pulling them out of the classroom. We're putting them in the library or in the computer lab, giving them the eye ready tests. They're they're not testing with their English or their math teachers. That's kind of separating the experience. And our faculty isn't as directly, attached to the test giving and taking because those kids are not in those classes at that time. These aren't these aren't my 25 kids. I've got in nine general English, and I'm giving them that test with them. And then directly looking at that data immediately for the 25 kids I'm teaching this semester. So there is is also that distance between our faculty and our students in the test giving. And then they're not they're not looking in the moment at their current students oftentimes. Now oftentimes they do. They'll have that that data for the kids that they do have that semester. But that's another piece that we'll change going into next year. We're looking at not separating the kids out, having them with their teachers, the teachers being the proctors. And then, you know, the next day being able to look at that data, see whether it should affect placement of  that student.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: How does it affect what we're doing with that student in flex for the 40 minutes at the end of each day? All of that will be much more immediate

[8948-188] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: going into next year. We're looking at not separating the kids out, having them with their teachers, the teachers being the proctors. And then, you know, the next day being able to look at that data, see whether it should affect placement of that student.
TEXT> How does it affect what we're doing with that student in flex for the 40 minutes at the end of each day? All of that will be much more immediate and direct instruction in in a way that it's not doing this year yet. So that's what our proposal is for the future, that we would test only students who are taking math, who are currently in the math class. Same with the Ela. That will give us a pure set of results showing how instruction is affecting growth. And we would also propose that we test within the actual math and Ela classrooms, using the teachers to oversee the tests,  and directly then access the data for the students who are currently in their classes. Christine and admin, we're all working with departments now as to, working with them as to how to look at the data for their current students. What does that look like in the adjusting of curriculum  and instruction in their classes, and making them comfortable, so that working with the data becomes a much more routine part of of their teaching practice. Special education has done a really good job of latching onto the instructional piece component and working with their students. They've gotten extra licenses and is using or using that instructional piece to work with the kids who are identified and have a lower skill set nine through 12.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So that's really where and math department, especially with algebra, they're using at least 1 to 2 times a week. They're using the instructional component, taking the kids to the

[8948-189] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: a really good job of latching onto the instructional piece component and working with their students. They've gotten extra licenses and is using or using that instructional piece to work with the kids who are identified and have a lower skill set nine through 12.
TEXT> So that's really where and math department, especially with algebra, they're using at least 1 to 2 times a week. They're using the instructional component, taking the kids to the library with the math teachers, getting them on the instructional component, those students who are below grade level and using that piece to to help them. I think one of the other pieces to to look at, and I don't know how much more it affects high school age students versus younger students, is how to incentivize students around the taking of this text to really maximize, and give fidelity to what you're seeing. And this sends up red, little red and yellow flags when a kid is rushing through the system, knows it, and it'll red flag them. And so we'll stop the student or and invariably we'll tell them they have to retake the test because we saw that you you played the system. You weren't being genuine in your responses. So that's one way to to kind of vet who's not thoroughly engaged. But still, I think we have to look at better communicating with our students that these results will be used much more consistently in the placement of students in classes. And that, I think, will help to incentivize kids really giving their best on these tests. So we get a truer picture of what their actual growth is. Finally, what we've done in working with the middle school is in this process.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: This year, we've guidance has redone the course selection forms that we're giving to our rising freshmen. And on there, we're asking for the eighth grade guidance to put their

[8948-192] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: Patrick, question.
TEXT> Well, yeah, I had a couple necessarily have to be just for you, Pat. But, but you you and you, you raised some, I think some interesting points. One so one thing that was kind of strike me as a listening is what? What are we learning from the ivory data, I guess, about students  that we wouldn't have determined teacher teachers may not have been able to determine before through traditional  academic observations, assessments. And I mean, it's you brought up some some of this is interesting, for example, being able to see what the retaining through our schedule system when they're having gaps. I mean that's an interesting example. And there's. I it's just one of these things I wonder about because it sounds like we're spending a lot of time kind of talking about how to, how to, how to actually, I don't want to jump into another question, but, so maybe I'm going to cut off, I just said, and just stick to I'm curious about what we're for, the energy and what we're putting into this. What are we getting that it seems like some of the patterns that I've, I saw, for example, the fact that we're hitting a gap that seems like we hit a wall, like there's all this growth in math at elementary and then it hits a wall in middle school, I've been seeing that in the data for a lot in the scores for ages.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: That's nothing new. So what are we learning from this that we didn't know before? Because I don't it seems like I, I don't know, I don't want to load.

[8948-198] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> No, I think that, you know, Pat mentioned the fact that, you know, they can look at the scores and how to identify, effectiveness of other systems that they have in place. Going back to Brian's question of, you know, you saw greater growth of K-5 one through five than you did six, eight and nine and ten. I think that you probably also heard in the explanations from the principles that there is a stronger culture of data use  right now at our elementary level than there is at the middle school and high school level. Before last year, we did not have anything in place to know if students in the high school were progressing or not, other than, individual course assessments. And so it was really tricky to be able to know if we're making adequate growth across the board, if the math sequence that we have is actually supporting student learning or not. I think everybody talked about the fact that they have additional questions now that they have the data in front of them, and it's things like, okay, so now we're looking at the growth data. What does that attendance data layered on top of that growth data look like? You know, if we look at students with ten or more absences, 15 or more absences,  25 or more absences, what is their data look like compared to those who are attending on a regular basis?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And that has implications for this board in terms of policy making and things of that nature. So it's really all connected. And without that benchmark systematic assessment that is

[8948-200] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: my in maybe all three of them talked about Rigby assessments. We also use assessments. And so there are other things that they are using to know whether or not a student is making growth, going on, the gut feeling, that's a component of it.
TEXT> But that can't be the only thing that we look at. So, you know, jokingly, yeah, you have a lot of opinion. Your question I know, I know where you're coming from. But I think that everything in moderation is important. And if we're going to be able to make improvements systemwide because I don't know about you, but I'm not okay with one elementary school being far superior than the other two. I'm not. So if we're going to make improvements system wide, we need to have some relevant data to be able to do that. And everybody is working hard on these improvements and how we can how we can increase the learning opportunities for our kids. Middleton said it earlier. I hope nobody is comfortable with this. I hope nobody in this room is comfortable with this data. But it's important for us to be transparent,  right? As soon as we start sugarcoating things or hiding things, then we end up getting what we've always gotten to some degree, and it's important for us to be transparent. What is our current reality? What are we doing well, what are we not doing well? Where are we falling down? We can address it and fix it and be better at it.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And I think that's important for us to to remember here. And it has implications not only for the principals and their teachers and our students, but it has implications

[8948-201] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: gotten to some degree, and it's important for us to be transparent. What is our current reality? What are we doing well, what are we not doing well? Where are we falling down? We can address it and fix it and be better at it.
TEXT> And I think that's important for us to to remember here. And it has implications not only for the principals and their teachers and our students, but it has implications for you as board members as well, because what are you doing to support through policy, through budget, what we need based on what we are learning as we move forward.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So how long have. We been using.

[8948-218] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Michael Lansing: love it. And so the second round of after our second test, we all we all jumped in quick and we knew we were doing. And it was really fun and easy to take ownership. So it's just the use of ease is just amazing.
TEXT> That's what I see. As a potential at the high school for our flex, because right now, especially for our math and English teachers, flex is an overwhelming time. They'll have 20 to 25 kids in flex, each with a different assignment issue,  skill problem, and trying to differentiate and really give that kind of focused help in 40 minutes to 20 to 25 kids is difficult. It's virtually impossible. I don't care how good a teacher you are, if we can divide those students into those categories by skill deficiency and then say teacher A will on Tuesdays during flex, spend 40 minutes focusing on this with 20 kids. Teacher be on this, on this, on that. Be a much more efficient way, far less frustrating way to focus really on on student needs. So I see that as an exciting.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: Temperature potential and the potential for eighth graders, the potential is there for at the end of eighth grade year, you will be able to know what skills those kids

[8948-219] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (surname as heard; resignation acce | 2017-03-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: on Tuesdays during flex, spend 40 minutes focusing on this with 20 kids. Teacher be on this, on this, on that. Be a much more efficient way, far less frustrating way to focus really on on student needs. So I see that as an exciting.
TEXT> Temperature potential and the potential for eighth graders, the potential is there for at the end of eighth grade year, you will be able to know what skills those kids are missing. And so  over the summer and it's, you know, the beginning of the school year when they go to ninth grade, the high school math teachers already know what those kids need to do. They're they're ahead of the game that that potential is there. And the best part is it's easy to it's not difficult to look at. And that's the next part.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: I'm sorry if I came across as antagonistic, I was there's it's it's just this. And I was really looking at this one issue that's just been a very kind

[8948-224] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: to our system. I get the assessment overload piece. I don't disagree with you. I think if again, if you had asked me about a different assessment, I would have had a different answer for you. But for this one, I think it's spot on.
TEXT> And I think something people need to remember about this is that while we do get all this, this data and these really useful tools for for teachers, it's also useful for the students because there's that instructional component when, when when a teacher is working on something with kids that that need semester instruction or remediation with something other students can be using the I ready and it's it's it's helpful because it keeps them on task and it keeps them progressing keeps them learning.
NEXT> Unidentified: So so it's.

[8948-230] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: So one of the goals is college readiness, right? Getting students graduating. So is there any data that I I'm new to? I ready is how long have they been around or. I mean is is there correlations to improved SAT scores college readiness.
TEXT> They've been around for. Six seven years maybe at most. So they're relatively new. One of the things that's again, better about I already than other products we've used in the past is that it was created after the implementation of the Common Core. And so instead of just being Common Core referenced or retroactively correlated, it was created that way, which is which is helpful because we're teaching our students to a high standard. This product mirrors, mirrors that standard.  There are other reports that it offers correlative studies to SATs to college readiness, things of that nature. We haven't yet explored all of that, so I wouldn't be able to speak about that this evening, but it's something we certainly will be looking at and can speak to in the future.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8948-232] Paulette | Principal, Claremont Middle School (first name only on record, uncerta | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Yeah, I just wanted to mention one thing we've talked about, you know, the teachers using it and even the reports for the parents. But we've also found it's useful for the students, for them to see where their score is. Why are they in this certain wind group? And we can tell them, because this is what your score is. This is what you need. And so for students who are who might be struggling, it kind of gives them some hope, you know. Oh, so if I work on this, if I'm if I'm completing this online component piece, then maybe I will improve, you know, that that kind of thing. It helps. It's it helps us be transparent with our students, at least at the middle school, maybe not so much at the elementary school, but at the middle school, we're really trying to impress that upon them. So I just wanted.
NEXT> Unidentified: To add that.

[8948-244] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: difference at for us. So it's that, you know, that's a really important component to have someone who's going to be there just to take data that that's not just to take data and work with faculty on what that looks like in the classroom.
TEXT> So it seems it seems to me we're finally the point where we're teaching to the student rather than teaching to the test. And that to me, is refreshing. I can't tell you how refreshing it is to hear that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Oh, I want to thank you. And I want to. Middleton. Thank you. I appreciate the directness. And like you said, it's it's not always going to be pretty sure.

[8948-440] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Be invited.
TEXT> That's what I'm asking is, is let's let's look at okay, we did it this way once and then we've done it this way. So why can't we look at a way to work together and do something that's this appetizing and appealing, not just a bunch of people going, oh, I'm going to run because I want to change it. How about let's be appetizing about it? Let's, let's bring people in because they want to come in to make a change for the children, because it's about the children. It's not about the it is about the teachers, and it is about the school system, but it's also about the children and and it's showing to me. I thought that was a really great thing. I'm just simply saying it would be really nice if we had had that opportunity again.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[8948-494] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-01
PREV> Chris Irish: not. Let's start. To me, there's less we could start now except for the election. Let's start in April, what we started in October and really dig it through, but a little bit slower base. So I think we set the I set the bar.
TEXT> We set a good stage saying that we support our teachers. We know that's important and it is a competitive environment. We want more teachers. They make a life impact on our young people. And and as mentioned earlier, that's what it's all about. Our young people.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Want to Brian's hand. By the time we meet in April, the taxpayers in Claremont made four star hand. So we'll know everything we need.

[8948-520] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: What do.
TEXT> You got? So, on March 23rd at from 530 to 9 at the heart of Claremont office slash little mini hall. We're having our  annual thank you to our community and and our friends and our children for  the past year of flowers and and Christmas. So everyone in the community is invited. And there'll be awards and things. However, the best. Well, it's not the best part, but a big part is that at the end of it, at the end of the evening, after the awards are over, you'll be able to look at art through local artisans who are in the area. John Hall, Abigail Clay, Jacob Wilson  will all be the swing art. So that and there will be a mandolin player and a guitar player. So there's going to be several different spectrums of art to look at.
NEXT> Unidentified: So that's a 23rd. Yeah.

[8976-77] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you.
TEXT> Marion Lovett was not able to be here this evening, this evening because she is involved with the  weekend performances. Nine worst breakups in history.  There was a meeting due to tech week. The opening night is tomorrow at 7 p.m. at Stephens High School. The performance nine worst breakups in history and will premiere through Sunday at 2:00.  So Thursday night, it's is 7:00. Friday and Saturday night. This Friday side of the night, also 7:00. And then the Sunday matinee is 2:00. It's high school. The mission is $5. And Marion encourages all to please come and support the senior class and the theater department. And, this really is a is a a period of time to celebrate, celebrate our students. In today's Eagle Times, there was a terrific article that shows pictures of Parker Smith, Zach O'Brien, and Richard Bell receiving the  New Hampshire chapter, National Football Foundation and College Hall of Fame Scholar Athlete Award. A great photograph of our of our three seniors in their Cardinal football,  uniforms. And it was just last weekend,  where I as with hundreds of others,  attended Southern New Hampshire University Saturday at 730 watching a curse. And  the Cardinals play for the state championship in Division three basketball. Outstanding game, outstanding game. We did not prevail. But clearly the spirit, the enthusiasm  was was just unbelievable.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And and it was such a close game. I think both teams won even though we did not win the title. I will share with you that there were so

[8976-80] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-15
PREV> Chris Irish: Or 2000 people in the auditorium in.
TEXT> Just it. There is no way of describing the excitement and the electricity. It was just a wonderful, wonderful moment for Claremont Stevens High School. The the Claremont, the School District community. So very pleased  and congratulations to our student athletes. So I've talked about the fine arts theater, and I've talked about our student athletes and also like to talk about  our elementary, every year there is a fire and life safety school year calendar contest. And under the leadership of the elementary school art teacher, miss Heather, Liam Bruno and our three third grade teachers, Tiffany McKenzie, Chelsea elder son, and Kathleen Buckley, all Disney third grade students participated in this Fire and Life Safety School Year calendar contest by the State Fire Marshal's Office. Melissa Lewis, principal of Disney Art Elementary School, is very proud to announce that we recently learned that two design third graders are contest winners. Students first learned about various fire prevention topics with their classroom teachers, then working with Mrs.  Miss Leon Bruno. They captured their learning into illustrations demonstrating that fire safety topic the did not. A third grade hosted a gallery walk of their work before sending their illustrations in for judging for Fire Chief Bergeron, Captain Burr, and Lieutenant Stevens  on March 30th.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Contest winners will join a ceremony to receive a certificate, plaque and a children's book. And then, of course, a pizza party will immediately follow. I'd like to congratulate Disney

[8976-81] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-15
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Leon Bruno. They captured their learning into illustrations demonstrating that fire safety topic the did not. A third grade hosted a gallery walk of their work before sending their illustrations in for judging for Fire Chief Bergeron, Captain Burr, and Lieutenant Stevens on March 30th.
TEXT> Contest winners will join a ceremony to receive a certificate, plaque and a children's book. And then, of course, a pizza party will immediately follow. I'd like to congratulate Disney Art Elementary School, as well as the  winners,  Ashlyn Robbins and Olivia Walker. Now you have to understand this was a statewide contest, so all elementary students across the state,  and we have two young ladies at Disney Art Elementary School whose  artwork was was picked. So Disney Art Elementary School, the Claremont School District is very proud. You've heard me say that we measure our school district by the accomplishments of our students. It's not really what the adults do, even though we have a part. But the the end game is what our students are doing.  And this is a classic example of the Claremont School District, the Claremont community and our students, and much to be proud of.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's great. Thank you.

[8976-107] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - not named when speaking; 'c | 2017-03-15
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Anything else for the superintendent?
TEXT> I just like to add that is a remarkable to see all of the athletes that are, that are coming forward and doing so well. And I just like to thank the parents for their tireless efforts to get them there day in and day out, and probably giving up a lot of their own lives so that their children can  obviously prosper and and make good on to our school, in our community. So thank you to all of the parents that are behind these children. And the children.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Open up for citizens. Comments.

[8976-115] Cheryl Danza | Public commenter, Ward 2, school food service worker (name as heard, A | 2017-03-15
PREV> Cheryl Danza: we don't have natural gas, so it's not actually hooked up. It's not working. So my question is going to be if they come in and they find out that we don't have proper equipment, where is that going to come out of the budget?
TEXT> So these are like I said, these are kind of Phi's. Another thing that concerns me is right now when we have children that are required to pay but don't pay, that comes out of our food service budget. But I believe with the new companies it doesn't. I think that the taxpayers are required to pay that, Another question I had for Mr. McGowan was if we have these guidelines that the state or the Doe tells us that we have to do, one of which is we have to serve beans once a week and they have the same guidelines. How is what we're going to serve going to be different than what we do serve? Which is what I guess we're all asking for is changes and things to look better and things to be more for what the kids want to eat. But if we have the same guidelines, I don't understand how what we're going to serve is going to look any different than what we do serve. And I didn't know where to put this out here because there's not really it seems like the other companies should be the ones I asked, but I don't have anywhere to ask them.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We don't. We'll be looking at RFP in in April. And those are those are all valid questions that we can can ask. So that's at that point.

[8976-149] Unidentified | Public commenter, school food service worker (name not stated; colleag | 2017-03-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Can I ask the question? Sure, Becky. Sure. Who decides what the menu is going to be at the schools? We weren't mandated through the state. And you're you need to follow those guys.
TEXT> Yeah, we follow the state guidelines of calories and stuff and everything. And the children, K through eight have to have a half a cup of everything. Vegetables, a three quarters of a cup. All the high school kids have to have a cup and a quarter to a full cup. And that's exactly what we're doing, because otherwise it's not considered. We just had administrative review from the state, and they checked us all out and everything and said, you know, we were doing what we were doing and it has to be that way. Becky.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. Thank you.

[8976-159] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Of.
TEXT> The questions very similar. And I responded this way. I said that this is not a new discussion. This has been a three year discussion  and the perception is we can do better. Now that sounds like our current employees aren't doing a good job. That's not the spirit. That's not the intent. The intent is the perception is of some  of and some of us have been discussed at this table in the past. We can do better. So I  said, the reason I think this is going the direction it's going is to to address and test and to determine can we do better and can we see an increase, can we see change that will benefit the student and that will make the community more at peace with, especially for those who feel we can do better. And so that's what I wanted to share. I shared with them.  Knowing that what are we doing wrong could be a very valid question. It doesn't necessarily mean something is wrong. It means the perception is or expectation is we can do more. So I wanted to share that with.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: You, Patrick.

[8976-285] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair at this meeting [63]) | 2017-03-15
PREV> Unidentified: Please.
TEXT> Can we add  preschool? Since we do have a preschool, some of our children enter before kindergarten. This this only.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's a great catch.

[8976-295] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-15
PREV> Brian Rapp: Okay.
TEXT> And I think the most important thing, too, is that you want to catch a child when they're one year old. I mean, as soon as blood work starts, you want, at the appropriate age, you want to start having that screening. Because if the toddlers, the kids were very oral. Those are the ones who in a particular environment may be at risk. So.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Any other thoughts?

[8976-309] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-15
PREV> Patrick Adrian: I know that I know that of it was explained to us in the presentation. I just can't remember what you were told. So I couldn't say explain why.
TEXT> I think part of it is Brian's correct. And I think the other part of it is, I mean, when you think of,  of of an infant and there's a certain regimen of exams and or checkups, measuring, etc., weight gain, all of that blood work, inoculations as the child progresses toward entering preschool or kindergarten. Not all children experience that medical intervention. Yeah. So as a result, especially in a mobile society, and and it will be caught when they're in, when they're entering public school and the immunizations inadequate. But for lead that wants to be caught when they're infants not when they're 4 or 5. Because remember. Light is a cumulative and you can't remediate it. It's there. It stays. All the more reason to be proactive and to provide the assessment early and to identify a child whose level is high. I mean, an infant and then ask, why had that corrected?
NEXT> Chris Irish: Yeah.

[8976-326] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-15
PREV> Brian Rapp: That was with Newport, correct?
TEXT> It was. And the whole theme was, okay, these are our programs in our tech centers. How are these programs preparing  our students for the world? They're entering as far as location. That was the question.  And and it was an interesting results. And there were some changes as a result of that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Good read.

[8976-371] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And children.
TEXT> Meaning the children, the faculty, the parents.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I understand, I'm just wondering. No, no. Yes. Keep on making. We had food.

[8976-374] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair at this meeting [63]) | 2017-03-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: If they. I don't think it's a case of yucky food. I think it's a case of just an overall sense.
TEXT> Of students from Maple Ave. Mrs. Filene brought a bunch of students up to unity, just to look at how they do it. A locally sourced, food service. Yeah. And they came came back and gave a big presentation and they the kids loved it. All the kids loved it. Those same kids, they they really they're not happy with what we're providing them.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: The best. Honestly, the best thing you could do is take Brian's advice, because I go to each one and just. Yeah.

[9010-31] Keith Thibeault | Southwestern Community Services representative (self-identified 'my na | 2017-03-30
PREV> Keith Thibeault: some work over in Newport several years ago. There are resources available for that kind of work. In the communities, we have folks on staff that are trained and certified and lead abatement and, and can write the specs and work with work with contractors.
TEXT> So,  I just would like to offer up us as a partner in this effort.  Again, I've, like, just like your new manager. I've cut my teeth on a lot of this work down in Massachusetts,  where this a lot of this work was undertaken quite some time ago. And it's a solvable problem. I don't have to tell you because you, you know, about this problem, and what it means to it to an individual or a child. I've advocated on behalf of House Bill 247.  It's had some fits and starts, but it's getting some traction.  The state's starting to make its way, but I really want to commend the community here for taking on this issue. It's amazing how low the testing rates are in New Hampshire. You know, less than 20% of children get tested. And and it's a simple test. It's very easy. I think the state, unfortunately, and a lot of other communities have decided to look away on this issue as such. We've had, you know, I think there's estimated  over 1000 children to get poisoned annually  on, on what is a statewide on what is a solvable problem. This is not brain surgery.
NEXT> Keith Thibeault: This is this is it can be done. It's physical. We can it's easy to find it and it's relatively easy to get rid of it. And so as but

[9010-82] Gauthier | NH State Representative (first name not on this recording; ASR 'Repres | 2017-03-30
PREV> Peter Wright: Us about how many? Well.
TEXT> What percentage of those kids being tested. Are being tested.
NEXT> Peter Wright: Positive now? I can't. For a variety of reasons. One, I don't get the test results. I just get the number of tests, executed. And in any particular month, if

[9010-99] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (addressed 'Madam Mayor'; first and last name | 2017-03-30
PREV> Peter Wright: some public forum and bringing whether it's the school and the city and Valley Regional together to to make a big deal and say, just come in and get tested. You know, it's no, we we can structure it. So it's no out of pocket.
TEXT> So I'm glad you brought that up. Mr.. Right. Because that's our next step. I've been talking to Gail Guns, and we're trying to set up a training day for child care providers in the in the community. So we're looking at a couple of dates in April. April 11th and 13th. So you'll be getting a call to see if the Buckley Room is available. And if it's not, then we have other options. But the idea is to do exactly what you're saying. You have to educate the child care providers. You know  what  needs should happen so that they can interface with the parents of the children that they're taking care of. And we can further get the word out and get the testing done. So that's one of the next steps. I'll keep you posted. This is hot off the press.
NEXT> Peter Wright: I didn't think I'd walk away from this table without a homework.

[9010-139] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (uncertain - cluster onset 'Mr. Iris | 2017-03-30
PREV> Brian Rapp: Our next step is having our second read, and we'll continue to work with other stakeholders and look at when we can get some testing done.
TEXT> We have our potential list and I think we all probably do this. Could we see if we could potentially get our hands on some of the testers, if we qualify to get them for free? The kids that we were talking about.
NEXT> Peter Wright: They they only had two more in the state, only had two more in their stock, and there were people kicking and screaming. So I had one. But I would

[9010-153] Tom Connair | Attorney, Claremont school funding lawsuit counsel (ASR 'Tom cannon',  | 2017-03-30
PREV> Tom Connair: some volunteer attorneys who would be willing to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on free hours. We we filed a suit. It went through the course. The court said, no, education's nice. But, you know, that's just one of those things that government provides.
TEXT> It doesn't rise to the level of a constitutional right.  And in 1993, everybody surprised, including ours, the court held, we hold that this part of the Constitution imposes a duty on the state to provide a constitutionally adequate education to every child in the public schools in New Hampshire, and to guarantee adequate funding. So it took us four years to get there. And then the state of New Hampshire, again, with due respect to not with many legislators who knew we were doing the right thing for the right sake, including our Claremont reps as a body. Governors and legislators and legislators basically sat on their hands and still sit on their hands, spending more time figuring out how to not how to get around the Constitution than to debate, okay, this is what the court says. The Constitution says we got to comply with it. So how do we do it? In a fair way. More time was spent saying,  you know, the court was wrong. They don't have that authority.  Let's amend the Constitution that's been going on for many years to take that piece out. So education is a is not a fundamental right.
NEXT> Tom Connair: The justice of the Supreme Court was impeached, I believe, because of that reason. He he was not found guilty. Impeachment means you're you're kind of indicted. It was for

[9010-155] Tom Connair | Attorney, Claremont school funding lawsuit counsel (ASR 'Tom cannon',  | 2017-03-30
PREV> Tom Connair: was ironic. It's not because we don't have the money in the state of New Hampshire to adequately fund education. Well, one of the richest states in the United States, all wealth combined. And yet when you take out the property tax piece of it.
TEXT> We were and probably are still close to 50th in the nation in terms of state monies given to education. Now, when you build in all the property taxes from Claremont and other communities and then say, well, here's more and we're going to give it back, it comes up much higher.  But one of the richest states and yet we it's not a priority  in the state to give to our, our kids and to our educational systems. So that's that's the challenge. And in addition to our kids, it creates a horrible situation for our taxpayers because they're the ones who take it in the neck. And Claremont, again, we're a healthy, vibrant community. But, you know, the salary range is much lower than other communities. The last census had us at,  you know, the lowest in of 8%. So in addition to paying very high property taxes, not getting the money we should be getting from the state and then put it on the local guy who can't afford to join the community center. The tax effort that that a local guy or gal spends out of her  pocket to pay for their kids to go to to school here, it's not only unfair, but it's unconstitutional.
NEXT> Tom Connair: And we have to continue that fight. So as I said, it went back and forth many times. The first one was in 93, 1997. The court said, you know,

[9010-164] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-30
PREV> Brian Rapp: the the state doesn't want to fund a, special education the way that they should. I think we're getting 60% of what we're supposed to from the state. So they're they're cutting cutting their funding wherever they can and claiming that they're fulfilling their obligation.
TEXT> You know, it's interesting, thinking about this, this I go back to 1930, 1960s, the civil rights bill, where before the 1964 Lyndon Johnson signed that  if you were a child of color  or a man or woman of color,  you did not have the same opportunities as as Caucasian. And fortunately, that has changed for the most part. And now that regardless of your skin color, you had the same opportunities. But ironically,  what was going on 50, 60, 70 years ago was civil rights  is still going on today. And here's an example,  where a child lives in New Hampshire, the child's zip code has a major impact on the quality of that child's education. The children of Claremont deserve the same opportunities as any other child in any other part of the community, any other part of the state. Rather,  and you know, I'm not my comments are not going to be about it's not fair that another community has this and we don't have that. But here's an example. There's a local community just down the road, their school district as far as the number of children, number of schools, the size of their district,  is smaller than the Claremont School District. Their budget is $10 million more.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Now, I have said publicly you can have. Putting more money into a budget doesn't necessarily improve the quality of education. It's what you do with the money, but you

[9010-165] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-30
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: have that. But here's an example. There's a local community just down the road, their school district as far as the number of children, number of schools, the size of their district, is smaller than the Claremont School District. Their budget is $10 million more.
TEXT> Now, I have said publicly you can have. Putting more money into a budget doesn't necessarily improve the quality of education. It's what you do with the money, but you reach a point where you cannot make adjustments and still maintain that quality. And what we have found is that we are recruiting hard working, dedicated professional educators, some of them young, some of them seasoned, but we have a lot of trouble keeping them because the difference in compensation just down the road  are bordering communities 6 to $10,000 difference in starting pay. And I have seen some of the most Kylee skilled adults leave for the regions of supporting their families, and the difference in compensation is over $20,000 a year. Now. We can't we Claremont can't suddenly close that gap immediately. I understand that, but I have a lavender doctor funding. We are striving to increase our our staff salaries, to maintain our faculty, and also to protect the educational programs of our students.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But at the same time, there is a reverse trend now going on. If you look on the front page of this document, it just comes from my district report

[9010-168] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-30
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: starting to increase. The Education Reform Act of 1993 occurred with major overhaul in revenue, but also accountability. The reason I'm talking about Massachusetts is that I see us walking toward this cliff in New Hampshire, because the fixed costs do not are still increasing.
TEXT> We do not have the the revenue is decreasing. The taxpayer in a community I can't Claremont cannot pick up the difference. But I will tell you when other communities, whether it be Waterford or or nearby communities, if they have that tax base, they can. So I talked about the civil rights and the difference between children of color and children of Caucasian descent, and what that discrepancy was 50, 60, 70, 80 years ago in our country. Well, sadly enough, I see the gap widening between the haves and the have nots, and every child is entitled to the same quality education, and the zip code should not be a determining factor, nor should the color of the child's skin. And so if you excuse that comparison, I see the same thing happening. So going through this document, not only does it talk about the adequacy aid, which by the way, has failed and the adequacy aid reductions will continue.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: And just so while you're on that one, that was that HB 525.

[9010-176] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (uncertain - cluster onset 'Mr. Iris | 2017-03-30
PREV> Chris Irish: funding away from the public schools. And I wanted to say this while the representatives are here, because not only should you be fighting the voucher schools, I would love to see you introduce legislation that would say once and for all the charter schools.
TEXT> Parochial schools are not public schools, no matter how you try to spend them, because not everybody is eligible to go to those schools. They are not public schools. They never can be because none of us at this table, some of us could potentially afford to go to those schools, but the rest of us can't. That's what public schools are supposed to be about, is for everybody to have a chance. And if you can afford better, have at it on your dime. But these schools to consider these schools somehow a public school when even at the best percentage, 25% of the kids in New Hampshire could potentially go to one of those other schools, what about the other 75%? So public school is 100% opportunity. Those schools are not public schools, and every dime that goes to a public or private school appropriate school, let alone a religious school, that's a whole nother conversation. That money is coming away from an already strapped situation. And, you know, to to the mayor's point. It isn't it is sort of an education conversation. But to me, it's always been it's a funding, no matter how we get around it. I've been on the city council, I've been on the school board, I've been a state rep. And when it comes to the state, nobody cares about us because the majority of those representatives in New Hampshire, in Concord are from communities that don't have this issue.
NEXT> Chris Irish: It's not about education, it's about money, and it's about funding. And they don't want to change that. And it's whatever the conversation, it's always going to be about that

[9010-217] Tom Connair | Attorney, Claremont school funding lawsuit counsel (ASR 'Tom cannon',  | 2017-03-30
PREV> Tom Connair: rich communities, rich people who we lured in over the years to, to do that. Anyway, that's my thought on that, regard to we need more money. Yeah, we do, but as I said before, we're one of the richest states in the United States.
TEXT> But we're not tapping all of the resources,  including income tax. We have many people who moved to New Hampshire,  New London,  elsewhere who are lured here because they know, hey, I've got mine.  You get yours. The that's the attitude. Live free or die. I'm going to make a lot of money by moving here. So they move to these communities, and I've dealt with them and, you know, don't even don't even touch it. So they also  are another lobby, I think,  depending on the type of bill that it posed, an income tax properly crafted and passed, would reduce,  most people's income in the state of New Hampshire if that money was specifically directed to  school districts and educational adequacy or something like that. The overall tax burden after you,  minimize the property taxes. And people don't realize that most people taxing Claremont will go property tax to go way down. In any event, we're not a poor state. But when you think Mississippi and Alabama spend more  on their kids for education than we do from a state point of view, there's something wrong. Nothing against Alabama or Mississippi, but there are a lot property.
NEXT> Tom Connair: Well, there a lot poorer in terms of overall overall wealth. You look at the other New England states and what they've done just as a relevant comparison. We were

[9010-219] Tom Connair | Attorney, Claremont school funding lawsuit counsel (ASR 'Tom cannon',  | 2017-03-30
PREV> Tom Connair: other people. I think in terms of the black eye notion, this is the Claremont lawsuit, because I wanted it to be the Claremont lawsuit. We had five school district, but and the and the odds of it ever taking off were pretty, pretty minimal.
TEXT> That wasn't quite as sharp in the dark. But,  but what Claremont has done and what I think other school districts around the state are realizing is that now,  yeah, maybe we took the hit and we're blamed for it, but we're also the ones that have created education as a fundamental right in the state of New Hampshire and the obligation of the state of New Hampshire  to fund that. It's a feather in our caps. And we're looking at I mean, this is known by  many legal scholars is kind of the Brown versus Board of Education on a state level where you have through the third branch of government, which is an equal branch, by the way, legislature is is a  a right, a constitutional right of of all these children to have  that level of education similar to  the right of, minorities, in the same way you had the three branches of, of government  really calling into play the checks and balances that were anticipated to prevent the tyranny of the king. And they worked then and they're working many places. They're not working really well in New Hampshire.  But we at least are working on that. Finally,  at some point it's going to take a rising tide,  similar to, you know, the emancipation of slavery in the 1850s. And 60s. I think that's that is rising.  It's not going to happen overnight.
NEXT> Tom Connair: I may not be around, or if I am, I may you may not understand me or are you? But, I think we need to try to do the right

[9010-270] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (addressed 'Madam Mayor'; first and last name | 2017-03-30
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah, I believe that. So I'm.
TEXT> All but he is right. I mean this is only going to change as as more and more people get involved and say enough is enough. But when Doctor Goodwin and I testified on behalf of HB 525 down at the state House, we were amazed at how many communities had reached the same point we had reached, which there's nothing left to give. And they're firing teachers their programs because  they have nothing left. And the response from the legislature was, well, we studied this morning,  and that's not sufficient for us. Maybe other communities can do that, but there's more and more communities that are  where we're at. So I'm glad you,  Representative Gauthier and clutter here so that you can hear where we're going with this. I know Doctor Goodwin is going to testify on Tuesday for SB 193. Anybody's welcome to testify if you're available. And if you can, you know, he's going. So if you want to draft a letter, send it to him and he'll he'll be able to give it to the committee. And they can put that in their records. So you don't have to be there to testify. We know who is, and he can act as our intermediary.
NEXT> John Cloutier: I'm sorry. Yeah, I'm glad I came to listen. I'm sorry I couldn't bring better news, but. And I probably will be there at the hearing. At least I will

[9010-277] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (uncertain - cluster onset 'Mr. Iris | 2017-03-30
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Department of Education through to the Claremont School District would not come to the Claremont School District. It would go to those schools. So that's where the money comes from. It comes from the school district or is diverted, if you will, to another source.
TEXT> But to your. Point, that family that is now getting $15,000 to send five kids to private school has the means to pay  well over $100,000 on top of the 15 to send those kids to private school. That's the point. Was that,  yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's that's.

[9010-285] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (addressed 'Madam Mayor'; first and last name | 2017-03-30
PREV> Gauthier: That should be judged. On, on the. Parents income level. If they're making $10 million a year, they get nothing.
TEXT> Okay. For the sake of time, we're  over our time. We allocated for this evening, and we didn't even get to one other point, but that's okay. We move that to the next, next, meeting. So we've got two things. I want to end on a high note, which I got a note from our senator or. No, I didn't get a note from the senator, but I did get a note from Gail, and she said SB 247 passed the Senate 15 to 7.
NEXT> Unidentified: Great. Excellent.

[9020-13] Unidentified | Student representative (name not on the record) | 2017-04-05
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Good evening.
TEXT> This is from Stevens today. All juniors took the state assessment, sat in the gym and auditorium. It went very smoothly. And students were released when they were done around 1:00 and treated to pizza on their way out. We have Opera North coming to perform for our students on Thursday. Also, Alan Nelson just participated in the mixed choir at the New Hampshire All-State Music Festival this past weekend. We will be inducting our first class of Try and Music Honor Society members next Wednesday, which is the 12th, the National Honor Society, National Art Society, and National Technical Society.  Had their induction ceremony last Thursday, March 30th. Also, our music teacher, Miss Klein Stuber, is starting a chapter of the National Music Society in Physics two, which is a class Ironman. The students built solenoid, crank and rocker motors. So students would build these mechanisms from miscellaneous materials in the lab. The kids have videos of the two models working. They also have built electrical magnets, paper and plastic cup speakers. Simple dipole DC motor and how to make a battery out of potatoes and lemons with copper and zinc plated nails.
NEXT> Unidentified: The students built these mechanical mechanisms with the knowledge of how they win and actually worked. Since we have been interest in electrical power, we recently studied hybrid electric and

[9020-14] Unidentified | Student representative (name not on the record) | 2017-04-05
PREV> Unidentified: materials in the lab. The kids have videos of the two models working. They also have built electrical magnets, paper and plastic cup speakers. Simple dipole DC motor and how to make a battery out of potatoes and lemons with copper and zinc plated nails.
TEXT> The students built these mechanical mechanisms with the knowledge of how they win and actually worked. Since we have been interest in electrical power, we recently studied hybrid electric and fuel cell vehicles. We are still investigating the fundamental theory and design of fuel cell technology. We had a quick lab yesterday by working with the fuel cell car kit. The students activated the fuel cell and observed how the electric DC motor model car cruise around the classroom. Next step is to see different designs of fuel cells. The Key Club is working on providing approximately 60 Easter baskets to the elderly of Sullivan County. We solicited in names from local senior centers and compiled a list of individuals we could recognize with an Easter basket who weren't likely to receive visitors this year. The kids purchased the Easter baskets separately and put a lot of thought as to what we should go in them. Each basket also has a note wishing each recipient a Happy Easter from the Stephens High School Key Club. We did receive thank yous from some of the recipients, some of whom attended Stephens when they were young. They are very moving.  And then also quarter one of semester two is just about to close. So a lot of people are putting their last minute grades in. For the middle school we have.
NEXT> Unidentified: Our eighth grade students participated in the EP testing last month. Randomly selected students were tested as part of our nation's report card. Students are currently completing the SBA C

[9020-15] Unidentified | Student representative (name not on the record) | 2017-04-05
PREV> Unidentified: recipients, some of whom attended Stephens when they were young. They are very moving. And then also quarter one of semester two is just about to close. So a lot of people are putting their last minute grades in. For the middle school we have.
TEXT> Our eighth grade students participated in the EP testing last month. Randomly selected students were tested as part of our nation's report card. Students are currently completing the SBA C testing and should be done by April 13th. We hoping to see an increase in test scores as we did last year. Congratulations to all the CMS students who participated in Mouth Counts competition in February. A special shout out to Matt Knowlton, who plays nine in the top ten, and to Prescott Herzog, who placed 11th. They faced fierce competition. Many thanks to Terry Hayward, CMS math teacher, for coordinating this event. The eighth grade CMS band and chorus students performed alongside the Stevens High School Band and Chorus at Music in Our Schools Month concert on March 23rd. It was an exciting opportunity for our students to get a glimpse of what it would be like to participate in a music ensemble in Stevens High School. Thanks to the show's music teacher, Miss Klein Stuber and CMS music teacher Tom Smith for coordinating this event. We are gearing up for our spring sports season and practices are being scheduled.
NEXT> Unidentified: We look forward to another exciting season for all of our spring sport athletes. The 2017 Stem Fest took place on March 25th at Newport Middle High School. About 35

[9020-17] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-04-05
PREV> Unidentified: District Festival. These students are Aliya Kennett, Amanda Whitman, and Joshua Oh and Matthew Milton, Alex Gale, and Gabby Szabo. Please check out the CMS website and click on the Principal's News tab to get a weekly update. And that is all I have tonight.
TEXT> It's great. It's got a good stuff happening in the schools. Thank you.  Any questions for our student rep? Thanks again. I'll move on to superintendent.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Thank you. Thank you and good evening. I I'm trying to give you a little bit more of a heads up of what I'm going to be talking about, and

[9020-19] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: we we are building the partnership, strengthening with the River Valley Community College, but also a students. And hopefully, if all goes as planned over a period of several years, we'll have students at Stevens High School in several grades being involved with college credit.
TEXT> And more importantly, being involved in, in this particular case of a profession where there is a very, very high need in in Sullivan County as we focus on on Stem.  Also in your packet, Saint Joseph Saint Joseph's sport night honors Stevens athletes. It's a two page memo that was in the Eagle Times last Thursday. And it talks about our student athletes. I was not able to attend this. I was part of the Bluff Elementary School principal search committee if you process. But I did send a letter on behalf of the school board to each of our for student athletes congratulating them for their their accomplishment.  I'd also like to share with you that yesterday I drove the Concord with several other superintendents,  parents,  teacher associations,  National Education Association to talk about Senate Bill 193 was an opportunity to testify. If you remember, Senate Bill 193 is the voucher program, a system where, if approved,  a parent by their choice, which is really wonderful, by the way, parents should have a choice about their child's education. But this particular bill would allow funding designed for public education to be drawn. So let's say we had let us say we had two students in second grade, three and third grade, one in fourth grade and maybe four in fifth grade.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And the parents opted to have their children withdraw from the art school district and go to another district. That reduction of students would not necessitate a need to reduce

[9020-23] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: writing you about the action item on the April 5th school board meeting. Food service 20 1718. I'm a member of the fuel Up to Play 60 club at CMS, as well as the new State of New Hampshire representative for Fueled Up to Play.
TEXT> If you look to play, 60 is a national program based on fitness and nutrition while allowing students to have a voice in their school meal system. So, on behalf of the board, I contacted Prescott and invited him to attend next. Our next meeting on April 19th. And I said to him, I'm very interested in learning more about your views with school lunch programs. He wasn't talking about hours, per se. He was talking about the whole concept of school lunch programs. Would you be interested? And he responded, I accept your invitation to the school board meeting on April 19th. What specific topics would you like me to prepare? Could I use PowerPoint or Google Slides? How long would you like me to talk to the board, and what time should I arrive and what time will I speak? So I have to respond to to Mr. Herzog. But I think it's important you heard me talk about the student voice. I mean, Mary Ann Lovett has talked before about the importance of student voice. And  you've heard me talk about this. So he was an opportunity to listen to students. Students? Though adults run a school district, the student voice is an important part of information that we need to take under advisement.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And so that's what I look forward with the board permission. Actually, I've already invited him, so it's too late to give me a permission, I guess. But I think

[9020-48] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: Great. Thank you. Any other questions? Good. We've got our budget schedule for fiscal year 19. You had before.
TEXT> You were two sided document of. The development of a budget is much more than just numbers. And with the very important decisions and issues that school board members have to deal with.  We talked about the importance of starting this process soon. In fact, we're going to start it tonight. Joel Snyder is going to make a presentation regarding sugar River Valley Regional Tech Center strategic plan. In essence, this he's not only talking about his strategic plan and what he what he'll present as the future of this tech center. But that plan also has budgetary considerations. So that type of information is going to be important as we go forward for the board to be very well grounded in.  And if you notice, I have listed some topics that I feel would be very important for the board to have some background in, special education. There's been questioned about technology. So you can see technology talking about where we were six years ago, where we are today, the multi year tech plan. Not to not to burden you with a lot of detail, but to provide you with the foundation to make informed decisions. Because if things go as we anticipate, money will not be falling out of the trees and there'll be some difficult decisions, and it has to be based,  as with your responsibility, on what is in the best interests of students.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Athletics. We talk about also, capital improvement, security, early childhood education. This program is growing and the needs are changing. And there's a and this is a very important program.

[9020-49] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: to make informed decisions. Because if things go as we anticipate, money will not be falling out of the trees and there'll be some difficult decisions, and it has to be based, as with your responsibility, on what is in the best interests of students.
TEXT> Athletics. We talk about also, capital improvement, security, early childhood education. This program is growing and the needs are changing. And there's a and this is a very important program. So because of its growth, because of the children's needs, that has to be a discussion not so much publicly about children but rather a discussion. So you can be grounded talking about number nine pupil teacher ratios, saturation study of each school. Frank Sprague has talked about this. It's important that you just don't see a budget number for a school, but just exactly what that budget number represents. And looking at the at the positions and looking at the pupil teacher ratios  K to 12. Health education. If you remember two years ago with the Youth Risk Behavior Study Group, we talked about a great deal of emphasis on human sexuality and wellness, talking about healthy relationships. And in essence, that's where the condom distribution policy originated from. But we are sorely lacking in K to five health education. In fact, I say we need to have a greater investment of health, education or wellness  throughout our district. So that's going to be a discussion as well, as well as even talking about cross district academic expectations of competencies that doesn't have competencies in cross district, academic expectation doesn't occur by producing a curriculum.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It really has to be done and stayed on by by faculty, by by support of our teachers. So on the back of this are a series of dates. Tonight

[9020-60] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Patrick Adrian: trying to kind of move everything in district. But I think it's also important to see how is it going. And we have no idea. In a lot of ways, I mean, we get some information, but it's we need to know this actually benefiting.
TEXT> Certainly a number. Six on this list. Early childhood education growth needs expense. But I hope that would cover it. Is it working?  Well, let's put it this way. It has to work. It's a requirement. But more importantly, these are very important little people.  And and and what is going on in that area of their, their life, their education is critical as they move forward. But as it expands and it's not expanding by choice is expanding based on need, the need of our community and the children being identified. That we cannot turn our back on.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: That.

[9020-69] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Patrick Adrian: into the elementary and what we're able to provide and how to go about that. And, you know, I know it's a broad it's a really broad spectrum. But, I was I was thinking in terms of more the K through 12 side of it.
TEXT> I, I will say, Brian, if I may, Number one, special education. It's not it's not number one for any reason other than it's just number one. But I will tell you, there's some very important information the entire board needs to learn  about, that particular area. We're not going to talk about children or individuals. What we're going to talk about very important topics that have to be addressed.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So.

[9020-82] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: deciding that 12 months before the decision, because if we're talking about making some major changes to communities, schools, that's not something that should be surprised to anyone that's got to be laid out appropriately so people understand just exactly what you're doing and why.
TEXT> Absolutely. I think that it's very much showing that we're becoming more proactive and instead of reactive and and not saying, okay, because of the decline and  the high cost of maintenance and yada yada, that we're just going to close two schools. I mean, I think it should be, you know, a presentation that says over the next few years, let's take a look at what,  what what's going to be the best for the community, for the children and and ultimately for the taxpayers. You know, in the end.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: The discussion.

[9020-90] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by grant-repor | 2017-04-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: Everyone good. On to action items. We've got a grant or two.
TEXT> Or more. So we we are in full on let's see how much money we can get to support our kids mode, with a lot of different things. And so I just wanted to recap a little bit and also talk about some new grants that we have received and, and have the board vote officially as an action item to, to accept those funds. We've talked before about the system of care grant. This is approximately $2 million over the course of four years. It looks like at this point, because it was approved so late in the, in the school year for the actual funding that it will likely be over the course of five years. I bring it up again tonight because we are in the process of hiring our project manager for that grant, which is funded by the grant. It's a component of it, and so we will be moving forward with that and hope to have a.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Hope to have the wraparound supports in place for the fall for for our students who need it the most. And we will be selecting a criteria for how we

[9020-91] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by grant-repor | 2017-04-05
PREV> Cory LeClair: I bring it up again tonight because we are in the process of hiring our project manager for that grant, which is funded by the grant. It's a component of it, and so we will be moving forward with that and hope to have a.
TEXT> Hope to have the wraparound supports in place for the fall for for our students who need it the most. And we will be selecting a criteria for how we choose students to participate in that and to receive those additional services through this grant. We do have a community management team established now,  and we had our first meeting and it brought partners together from across the mental and behavioral health systems, DCF, the school district,  and TLC turning points network partners across the district who can really work together to support our neediest and students and those who are in most crisis. We also, have an additional set of funds. One is from the Department of  Ed through their title one reallocation. So we have $20,250 to send a team of folks to the New Hampshire Department of Ed summer summit. This would be our. I think they've this is the fifth or sixth year of the summit, and we have sent a team every year. The the summit gets better and better every year. The first year is were a little questionable. But this past summer it was it was really valuable. And some of the things we learned at the summit, we have already come back and implemented, it was the catalyst for changing our policies this fall around opening our.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Opening our policy so we could partner with community businesses and community agencies in a different way to support our kids. And that stem from the the learning that happened

[9020-92] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by grant-repor | 2017-04-05
PREV> Cory LeClair: is were a little questionable. But this past summer it was it was really valuable. And some of the things we learned at the summit, we have already come back and implemented, it was the catalyst for changing our policies this fall around opening our.
TEXT> Opening our policy so we could partner with community businesses and community agencies in a different way to support our kids. And that stem from the the learning that happened at the summer summit. So it does have value for our district. And we got a little over $20,000 to send a good group of folks to that. So if there is a school board member who is able to attend, it's the Wednesday, Thursday, Friday of the first week of August, I want to say two through four. Are the dates. So I'm going to go on a first come, first serve basis because I know all of you are going to want to go.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah.

[9020-94] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by grant-repor | 2017-04-05
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah.
TEXT> It's that good. But again, if you do, if you do, if you are able to go and you can commit to going, we have the grant funds to support that. The second is we asked for  additional funds in the competitive process  for McKinney Vento to support our homeless families and youth. So we were able to secure an additional $16,500 there. That will be used to, for a couple of different things. One of which is we are officially opened as a licensed child care facility  at the one for all space. So we now are able to provide childcare for our high school students who have babies. One has already started. We officially opened last week, so it's brand new and we have one  one kiddo there. I saw another one, a high school student, two high school students and their children on the  sidewalk today and said, okay, we we made this for you, for you to be at school now, you need to come so you can go to school.  And we're really optimistic that we will connect with the a handful of high school students so that they can complete their degree and finish their education.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we have $16,500 to that for to support the staff members. So it's a completely, non taxpayer funded, not or at least not in the local budgets, completely funded

[9020-95] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by grant-repor | 2017-04-05
PREV> Cory LeClair: you, for you to be at school now, you need to come so you can go to school. And we're really optimistic that we will connect with the a handful of high school students so that they can complete their degree and finish their education.
TEXT> So we have $16,500 to that for to support the staff members. So it's a completely,  non taxpayer funded, not or at least not in the local budgets, completely funded through through grant funds.  And and we have a staff member there. It also allows us to do drop in services. So if we have our homeless families who need to go to an interview or need to,  have a meeting of some sort and they have no child care, it will be an opportunity for them to bring their child to that facility, drop their child off for the hour that they need to go for their interview and come back and have a safe environment for that child to be in while they're gone.  Continuing on that vein, we have two grants from Broome, one for $3,000, one for $5,000 to support early learning.  It is  again, we learned of that and those opportunities at the summer summit last year. So not only is it good learning, but it tips us off to financial benefits in the future. So that's $8,000 that will go toward community engagement around early child care or early childhood care, and supporting parents with early learning for their kids.  So those are the. The new grants that I need approval or acceptance of tonight. And then I wanted to kind of talk a little bit more. So do you feel about.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Approved separately?

[9020-113] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by grant-repor | 2017-04-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: about the daycare. If there were teenagers or high school students that were not able to finish high school, but still within that have left high school, would they be able are we looking to encourage them to come back and offer this this daycare?
TEXT> We have a lot of options right now. We have a lot of options right now for our students who are,  either, you know, some folks aren't a fan of the term nontraditional learner, but they may be a nontraditional learner. They may have had circumstances that impacted their ability to graduate. And so if you know of students who are still within the age range, who aren't currently enrolled or attending school but want to just, either have them connect directly with the one for all space, Kathy Pellerin and folks there,  or connect with the high school administration, and we can steer them, steer them in a direction that works for them. There's not only programs offered by the Claremont School District, but also there's jagged jobs after graduation  and other programs in our community with with whom we partner that can help, help our young adults achieve a degree, a  diploma, and make them  more competitive in our community. So definitely thank you.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Okay.

[9020-154] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: because the accounting teacher taught two blocks is teaching two blocks. This semester. She taught one block last semester, and the pre-engineering teacher, which is Scott Pope, was actually in the audience, taught one block of pre-engineering, is teaching one block of engineering this semester.
TEXT> And what the whaling program lasts last semester. Okay. So you can see there's been a reduction, instructional staffing. If we look at the employees that are employed by the center, again, looking at 2001, we had seven CTE teachers, okay. We had a special special ed power educator. We had a culinary arts assistant, a student services coordinator, which essentially is a guidance counselor for our students here,  and a co-op coordinator, half time co-op coordinator. That's been reduced. So right now  our our workforce consists of myself, Bev, Janelle, who's in the audience, our administrative assistant, and 4.5 CTE teachers. So that's a really significant change as you can see. Here's an interesting historical enrollment that I dug. I dug back as 2001. Prior to 2001, the Doe did not keep computer based records. So somebody had to go down to some basement somewhere and dig out some paper files. But I was able to get this from Melissa Richards, actually, Melissa Gilman, her new name was at the state. And you can see that in 1990, in 1991, I'm sorry, 2001, we had 155 students enrolled in programs.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: The high point, as you can see, was in 2003 with 222 students. And it followed a trend. It kind of goes up and down. And unlike English nine or

[9020-155] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: and dig out some paper files. But I was able to get this from Melissa Richards, actually, Melissa Gilman, her new name was at the state. And you can see that in 1990, in 1991, I'm sorry, 2001, we had 155 students enrolled in programs.
TEXT> The high point, as you can see, was in 2003 with 222 students. And it followed a trend. It kind of goes up and down. And unlike English nine or algebra one, every student is not required to take a CT class and interests wax and wane. It's it's  it's not a guarantee that we're going to have students in every class at the same level every year. By the way, those numbers represented only what would be  the level one and level two, which are the first and second year of our CTE classes. All of our full blown CTE classes  are one year,  one block for a full year for the level one, one block for a full year for level two. Thank you. So  looking at increasing classes and increasing opportunities for us, for our students, there's actually a  protocol that the state requires that we go through to determine what courses are are needed, what courses are valuable, what courses will  feed the the labor market, and what courses certainly students would be interested in. And the three pieces, though, that really we have to look at are student interest. And that was done by surveys, labor market data, in which I looked at data from New Hampshire Department of Labor, labor and here in Sullivan County, a little bit into Cheshire and also into Windsor County, Vermont. Since some of our students go and end up working there as well.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: And the third part is we have to provide students with one of two things articulation credits at the high school level that articulate with the New Hampshire Community College

[9020-156] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: labor market data, in which I looked at data from New Hampshire Department of Labor, labor and here in Sullivan County, a little bit into Cheshire and also into Windsor County, Vermont. Since some of our students go and end up working there as well.
TEXT> And the third part is we have to provide students with one of two things articulation credits at the high school level that articulate with the New Hampshire Community College System, or an industry recognized credential, and a good example of an industry recognized credential would be serve safe that student students in culinary arts take, they they take they get the train. They pass the test. When they leave our program, they can then show an employer, I have a safe credential that puts them a little bit ahead of the rest of the crowd. When it comes time for looking for a job and at plumbing and heating, our students get 150 apprenticeship hours in machine tool. They can get Nims certification. I'm sorry, tooling you certification now. We changed it. Okay. So that gives our students a leg up when they enter the employment force. The other pathway towards putting students ahead is earning  community college credits while in high school. And we do have community college credits. We have community college credits aligned with River Valley Community College. We have community.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: We have community college with Central Maine Community College so kids can earn college credits in high school. Okay, probably your most familiar and heard most about running start credits.

[9020-162] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: they're clearly was a trend. We kind of kept hearing the same kind of employment possibilities over and over again. Okay. Next. Thank you. So what am I suggest? So crunching all that data and trying to be cognizant of a whole bunch of things.
TEXT> One is our ability to start new programs based on cost, the students that we have and where they're going to, where they're going to go after high school and what their interests are. I'm proposing that we we we introduce three programs pre-engineering, teacher prep, and computer repair and networking. All three of these programs articulate directly with River Valley Community College. That would be really a slam dunk to get running start credit. Our kids would not have to go through the expense of going to college and finding housing. They could take it right here for two years, and if they were in it, for example, they could then move on to you and H or in other college after two years over here. So I think I was I know I was trying to be respectful of students, all students now their ability to pay. I mean, we know what the cost of college is and River Valley is a wonderful opportunity for these kids. We can not only articulate the river valley because you can see that pre engineering articulates Nht lakes region. I'm not going to read them to you, but there are several other articulation possibilities of a student does not want to go to just River Valley.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: Okay. So why these programs okay. So pre-engineering has offered excellent career opportunities. We tend to think of engineering as being predominantly a four year degree. Not necessarily. So their

[9020-165] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: can be taught by any existing certified teacher in Claremont. We don't have to go train somebody, or we don't even have to hire somebody. We can have somebody maybe teach it for one block a day while they're doing the rest of their schedule.
TEXT> If that works out, it might not require an additional hiring position. We have the pre-K program right here at the tech center, and the K through a schools can serve as a practicum for our students, so they needn't go far from home to get out into the field to see what education is really like. By the way, pre teacher preparation students typically don't teach high school. Kind of tough to teach somebody your own age. Really. Practicum. There's a minimal amount of capital and materials needed. A lot of those materials we might even have as part of our pre-K within this building. The third program, computer networking and repair, the demonstrated need for IT professionals in this whole area. And we tend to think only in terms of large corporations, but every small business as a computer and needs it help from time to time. Students have identified computer repair networking as a tier two selection and actually have a teacher prep as a tier two selection in terms of what they wanted, what their interests lie. There's potential. The biggest potential industry partner we have right here in town is Red River computers. And the Claremont School District has worked with Red River computers in terms of looking at a computer curriculum, K through 12, it was called the IT Flow Project some years ago.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: We've had some meetings with Red River this year. They are really they really want to be involved in their program. I just met today with Allie from River Valley

[9020-166] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: potential industry partner we have right here in town is Red River computers. And the Claremont School District has worked with Red River computers in terms of looking at a computer curriculum, K through 12, it was called the IT Flow Project some years ago.
TEXT> We've had some meetings with Red River this year. They are really they really want to be involved in their program. I just met today with Allie from River Valley Community College, and he told me to bring up the fact that  River Valley is putting in computer programing and it piloting next fall. So we will be really well positioned to send our kids right into River Valley if that's what they want to go. If we have an IT program. Okay. And there's a again, there's a kids have expressed an interest in it. So how are we going to implement this. Well obviously it's clear this up to possibly three different teaching positions over here. My plan will be in July 2018 is a full or partial restoration of a student Services co-op coordinator. That would be a combined position. It was formerly one and a half positions. I would combine it. It is possible we could share that position with Stevens High School. If they can let one of their counselors go to spend some time here, that might be a good way to slowly ease into it. You know, the if the funds aren't necessarily available to hire somebody.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: But in terms of programs, the same year we would implement the pre-engineering class, again, minimal minimal equipment to buy the following year for the September 2019 class, implement the

[9020-181] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. I was just wondering if they didn't score closer to the top, how come those would be your choices? Does that make sense?
TEXT> This is in finance we already offer. Biotechnology is a pretty expensive program to implement. It could have been a possibility. We've got the computers, drama, dance and theater cylinders being taken care of it. Stevens High School, criminal justice, the police science is a possibility. I did talk with Pat Barry about it, and we thought once we get rolling, it is possible to offer that. And we really have an instructor from the police department coming in, let's say teacher now or a day, and then have the kids do the practicum at the police department. But I was trying to develop a budget for programs offering in-house in this building. Does that seem to be the prevalent thing that where are the kids in this building? And so I try to bring in the other one was  health technology is personally being offered Newport and Pre-Engineering, Newport and Claire, I just want to say generally the policy in in, in the 20 year agreement that we assigned originally and the ten year agreement was signed in 2012, says we cannot duplicate programs. Newport can duplicate our programs.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: We can't unless the program is oversubscribed. And there are more kids in Claremont, for example, that can't get into Newport programs. Then we can duplicate the program here. As

[9020-205] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Elena.
TEXT> Ellie. I'm sorry. Yes. Elena ward, there was a we're doing EMT for. Well, no,  I think they're doing now, the problem with the health doctor, Newport, is the nurse who supervised the kids, and I think can have a think they used in the London hospital our maximum eight students. And so that at one time we were looking at putting that program in here  because we could not accommodate. But then they're having a difficult time finding construction. Frank, you can help me out on this. This instructor you do have instructor. Okay. You know, they struggle to find. Yeah.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So so is there a reason why we I know you said we can't technically duplicate, but could we. Because there's only eight kids allowed per.

[9020-209] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I guess what I'm asking is, is that something that we could do here at to to the fact that they're probably is a need for that and a growing need for Elena's species in our community, even..
TEXT> I guess we could, but we have to make an argument with the state  that we're  our kids in. Claremont here are constantly shut out because but we are entitled to so many seats in their programs, right?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I guess I'm just trying to see that.

[9020-222] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: That's so how many when you did the survey, how many people did you actually survey and target?
TEXT> So I targeted everyone in grades ten,  nine, ten and 11 at Stevens High School.  And I targeted CM's middle school eighth graders, unity eighth graders.  And the survey was also given to Newport. But they didn't get the results back in time for the report from the.  Okay. And so I'm going to say the survey went to somewhere of around 200 students. So the way the survey was administered, I created a Google doc, and I sent  the Google Doc link  to all the advisors and Stevens High School and the kids did it during advisory. Now, I can't tell you how many kids didn't do it. In fact, I did not administer the survey was administered by the advisors. But they they guided their students through the process. I met with I met with the, the the advisors in middle at the middle school. And I talked to them about it. I talked to a few of the advice over at Stevens, and I believe Pat Barron talked to them as well.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And why are we waiting to implement into especially, like I said, the technology one for two 2020.

[9020-227] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: that are more technology based than, than the hands on manufacturing. So I'm, you know, it would be great if, you know, like you said, we could partner with Red River and, you know, start producing, you know, certified out right out of high school.
TEXT> Well, I'm just wondering if the news of River Valley starting a program of fall, if we plan to go in instead of the 2020 to go, maybe 2019. So after their program is up and running, then our kids would go right into it. So maybe pushing ahead a year.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I think. Yeah, I just, I mean I I, I see the, the, the continuity of, of all of it. I wish we could do it all at once. I

[9020-264] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by grant-repor | 2017-04-05
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: They.
TEXT> Could they would have first option of refusal for that certain number of seats that our students are entitled to.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Well, there's been no interest. I'm sorry. There's been no interest, I.

[9020-271] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by grant-repor | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: Going to come back to my awareness. Plus, you know, plus the information, you know, equals the demand. And I don't I think the awareness pieces unfortunately left.
TEXT> And I have spoken to Canyon who asked. I didn't hear who asked the question. I have spoken with County. I'm and with the development office, and I'm part of the Economic development subcommittee for the city master plan. And this this conversation has come up and I think, I think Frank hits the nail on the head in terms of how are we marketing to our students, what available jobs are post-graduation or what available. Not even jobs, but opportunities are post-graduation. And I think that's an area that we certainly could improve, because if we are, if there are some seats obligated to us in the current program and our students are taking advantage of that, why is that? Now, it could be that other scheduling issues prevent them from being able to do so. Traveling from our campus to the new court campus can be challenging for students, and how that impacts the rest of their schedule. I don't know, but it's certainly certainly something that we should, in my opinion, explore further and understand better why students are accessing it.  And what we can do to potentially correct that, because we have a host of employers in this community that are looking for that skill set.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: What I hope is going to happen if. Starting next week, the Stevens High School Scheduling Committee is going, a group of educators, staff within our district are going to

[9020-273] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: and, there are so many different opportunities that students could at least have exposure to, to become more aware of about what the trades are, even if they have rigid plans to go to a four year Ivy League school still having access and exposure.
TEXT> And right now it only occurs if it's a fit for their schedule. And that's more of a scheduling issues versus a student need issue. So I that's my hope because I, I'm not pushing the trades, but I'm saying that I'm willing to bet there are many students who might be very interested in a career tech opportunity for a career, if in fact, they were aware if there was information. And so that's  that's one of that's one of the goals I have going down the road with this. Because what a what a facility this is and it should be, it should be maxed.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So with that said, that said, is there an opportunity for eighth graders to come take a walking tour?

[9020-399] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: Any other discussion or concerns with that policy?
TEXT> I just want to mention, from an educational point of view that having these early screenings from pupil placement team, student support team, the value of that information in looking at variables that might be impacting the student's performance in school, having the information of a lead screening, they're available. And as far as responding to a kid's needs, appropriate, appropriately and accurately, make this absolutely essential and valuable tool.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And, you know, I'm also looking at it, if we can sensitize the entire community and have the resources available to reduce a child's access to lead, we will see,

[9041-13] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides: calls to order, runs agenda, c | 2017-04-19
PREV> Chris Irish: I'll abstain because I was not here.
TEXT> All in favor? Aye. Opposed? And one abstention. Our student representatives report. Good evening.
NEXT> Marion Lovett: Good evening. So, here's a little countdown. We have 30 more school days left and 50 more days in total. So I don't know if you can tell, but I'm

[9041-15] Marion Lovett | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (uncer | 2017-04-19
PREV> Marion Lovett: event put up by Buckle Up New Hampshire through the state's Office of Highway Safety and the Injury Prevention Center of Dartmouth-Hitchcock. The event, held at Stevens, had six teams of four to compete. The challenge begins with four people sitting buckles in a car.
TEXT> A whistle blows, then the student has to get out of the car, move clockwise, and send next position while buckling their belt without touching the outside of the car. Students must move to a new position and be buckled in each time the whistle blows, with the goal of having each participant returned to their original position in the shortest amount of time. Each time compete or each time competes twice, with the fastest time winning the challenge. The winning team consisted of Kyle Greene, Brogan Eaton, Jasmine Griffin, and Bethany McNamara, who won in 38 seconds, beating our last year's winners by one second, and the second place team finished of Zach O'Brien, Derek Stanhope, Zach Stanhope and Richard Bell. The first place team will move on to the state competition on May 16th at the New Hampshire Police Standard and Training Council, to compete with roughly 28 different schools. The principles of engineering and Machine Tool class will have a display of projects before the school board meeting of May 3rd. School board members are welcome to come and see the student projects in the machine tool engineering classroom before the meeting, and then youth and government just got back and that was great. We had a bunch of bills that were passed. Some of our students from the delegation was even talked about in a judicial court, and we will hear about that next meeting. So thank you very much.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's all. Thank you. Any questions for our student representative? Perfect. Thanks so much. Superintendents report.

[9041-16] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides: calls to order, runs agenda, c | 2017-04-19
PREV> Marion Lovett: government just got back and that was great. We had a bunch of bills that were passed. Some of our students from the delegation was even talked about in a judicial court, and we will hear about that next meeting. So thank you very much.
TEXT> That's all. Thank you. Any questions for our student representative? Perfect. Thanks so much. Superintendents report.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Thanks and good evening. There's a lot of great things to be talking about tonight. I think the agenda hopefully, is self-explanatory. One thing that is not in your packet

[9041-19] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: common in the home, but still, it's something that they should be made very much aware of. And when you look through this packet, you can see that at least 68% of the jobs in New Hampshire will require some post-secondary education in three years.
TEXT> So the days of a student,  graduating from high school and being successful with a with a employment, I'm not saying they won't be, but the chances are greatly enhanced. Yet just 52% of new New Hampshire workers hold any high value credentials or degree. So there's some catching up to do. And  but it doesn't start, as I said before in grade nine. The school district will implement a plan to impact students for the first time no later than seventh grade. So this year's seventh grade class, we are going to start working with them now. Normally, we would have started this in the fall of 2016, but the state of New Hampshire learned of this in the fall of 2016. This is the first time the state of New Hampshire has received this discretionary grant $1.6 million annually. And what's also exciting about this, besides comprehensive mentoring, counseling, outreach, also include financial aid, counseling, as well as activities regarding college admission to tests. In other words,  providing our students with a foundation of information, age appropriate, great, appropriate as they go forward through high school. So they will be  thinking about their options long before their junior and senior year.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And in this case, it's going to start in grade seven. The high school counselors, guidance counselors and administration, the middle school counselors and administration met last week with, the

[9041-20] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: well as activities regarding college admission to tests. In other words, providing our students with a foundation of information, age appropriate, great, appropriate as they go forward through high school. So they will be thinking about their options long before their junior and senior year.
TEXT> And in this case, it's going to start in grade seven.  The high school counselors, guidance counselors and administration, the middle school counselors and administration met  last week  with, the New Hampshire  gear Up program. And we are very, very pleased with  the potential for this. And this is, by the way, a multiyear process. This is not just going to be a, so that is some very, very good news for for us. And as I said before, I'm excited about it. It's almost as if we knew this was coming when we established one of our academic achievement goals.  Months before we learned of this. So it's a great compliment to to an effort,  if you recall,  75, our goal. Even though it's higher than the states, that's okay. Our goal is one day within next five years. 75% of our high school graduates will have applied to post-high school experiences, whether it be a university or college, community college, or additional skill set. And that 75% of those who apply will be accepted and attend. But that doesn't happen by guidance counselors at the high school working closely with our students. It's a district wide initiative also in your packet.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And so more information is coming about that. Also when you pack at River Valley Community College, one of our academic achievement goals, again, is that we increase the awareness

[9041-22] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Valley Community College Instructional technology credits, and perhaps even to the point where they have an associate degree. And last but certainly not least, Stevens High School Schedule Committee. I've listed the members of the administration and faculty who are part of of this committee.
TEXT> This was part of the collective bargaining agreement and a memorandum of understanding that was signed by the school board  and the sugar River Education Association back in January of 2017. The goal behind this  is to prepare a schedule for the 2018 2019 school year.  But there are some clear parameters and one of them is  The schedule for 1819 has to be affordable by the for the Claremont community. You know, we're we're dealing with some difficult times. So when we think of creating a schedule it has to be affordable. I also emphasize that let's not reinvent the wheel. Let's look at programs in our state or elsewhere that are successful. But it has to be geared toward our students here in Claremont and Stevens High School.  I also emphasized we need to eliminate the 1 to 2 year academic content gap that now exists at our current schedule. If possible, a student could take a math course as a freshman and not take another math course  until the junior. And that's been very problematic. So that's one of the one of the goals that we need to be sure is a part of the schedule. I am not going to serve on this committee.  The the staff and administration have been empowered.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And I'm very confident that they are going to be transparent. I'm going to be reporting to you and the public periodically of their progress. The teachers association is also

[9041-23] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the junior. And that's been very problematic. So that's one of the one of the goals that we need to be sure is a part of the schedule. I am not going to serve on this committee. The the staff and administration have been empowered.
TEXT> And I'm very confident that they are going to be transparent. I'm going to be reporting to you and the public periodically of their progress.  The teachers association is also going to learn  periodically of the progress. So this isn't collective bargaining. This is not a closed door discussion. It's got to be fluid. And it has to be, as I said before, transparent. The expectation is that by February 2018, the work is just about done because there's a great deal of work with scheduling students. One of the goals I, I asked them to consider is we must improve student access to the tech center by no one's intent. Students are blocked from accessing the tech center because of the current schedule and because of the lack of two way. We also heard two weeks ago from Joel Snide. He talked about a multi-year strategic plan for the tech center and how we wish to expand that. But that's not going to be productive if our students don't have access. And when I say access, I'm not necessarily talking about the model we now have. There's even been some discussion of having some of the courses at the Tech center, or future courses at Tech Center be a requirement.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Now, again, I'm not telling you that's going to happen. I'm telling you that we need to take a step back and look at how we're going to be doing

[9041-24] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: if our students don't have access. And when I say access, I'm not necessarily talking about the model we now have. There's even been some discussion of having some of the courses at the Tech center, or future courses at Tech Center be a requirement.
TEXT> Now, again, I'm not telling you that's going to happen. I'm telling you that we need to take a step back and look at how we're going to be doing business, where our students have greater opportunities for access. Especially with what I've just talked about, with the importance of students leading high school with certain skills in preparation for or or to acquire  additional skills prior to employment. Resistance to change is one of the Achilles seals, or stones in the shoe that this committee may experience, but what they all understand is that the collective bargaining agreement is being put aside. They are not going to create a schedule that matches the collective bargaining agreement. They're going to create a schedule that meets the needs of the academic programs in the Claremont School District. That's affordable. As I said before, and I look forward to this, I have a great deal of confidence in the teachers and the administration who are part of this. And you're going to be hearing a periodic report from me as this moves forward. And.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Last but not least. I can't tell you how impressed I have been looking at our student athletes recently attending a track meet. It is amazing looking at the young

[9041-25] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: affordable. As I said before, and I look forward to this, I have a great deal of confidence in the teachers and the administration who are part of this. And you're going to be hearing a periodic report from me as this moves forward. And.
TEXT> Last but not least.  I can't tell you how impressed I have been looking at our student athletes recently attending a track meet. It is amazing looking at the young ladies and the young men and a cross-section of different abilities. The students who participated wasn't based on their athletic ability. It was based on their grit, their commitment, and clearly the athletic ability was a part of it. But it's not the sole determinant. And it was quite something to see the enthusiasm of multi teams cheering on a student who may have some challenges, but having his back or her back running down that track. It was just just terrific.  And the other thing that's remarkable is attending a few weeks ago,  a,  a junior play. I think it was a lip sync. The, the the artistic talent of our students  is just quite amazing. And we're going to be learning more about the talent of our students as, as the spring evolves. So I'm going to stop now because I could take up most of the meeting talking about our students. Thank you.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Any questions for the superintendent?

[9041-29] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Good one. Can you describe how the current schedule is, is, impeding access to, the tech classes courses?
TEXT> I'd give you general examples there. Right now we have students who have to make a choice. Do I take this requirement as Stevens High School or do I take this course at the tech center? And in some cases they're blocked out? There's a conflict and they can't.  There are students who have access to the tech center, but my vision is all students should have the opportunity. And even though  I may not be interested as a student in manufacturing or in building  or in plumbing and heating or in culinary  or in business.  I still though should, in my view, have the opportunity to be exposed to a different, different venues, different programs. But right now, Patrick, every student and I and this has not just occurred. This has been going on since I arrived 2011.  Students do not have fluent access. There are conflicts. And if it's if you need to take an English course or want to take this course, you're not going to pick the tech course. You can't. You need to complete that English course. And that's the problem.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So explanation is the A was the a B schedule. How did that remedy it. Because I was that was a question I was trying to to figure out and

[9041-44] Lisa Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3 resident; TLC Family Resource Center and Rura | 2017-04-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anything else for the superintendent? Pretty good. We'll open it up for citizens. Comments.
TEXT> Hello everyone, I'm Lisa Draper, I am a resident of Ward three,  the parent  of alumni  of Stevens High School, which is very exciting. I work for TLC Family Resource Center. I'm the county's comprehensive sex educator doing pregnancy and STI prevention work with youth.  I'm also the regional coordinator for Glisten. That acronym stands for the Gay Lesbian Straight Education Network. And I am one of the organizers of rural outright. And it's about that that I've come to speak with you this evening as a follow on to your decision to thank you.  Put in place an LGBTQ policy for our district to protect our students.  So I don't know if you've had a chance to pick it up, but I have the mission and vision statement for rural outright for the benefit of the viewing audience. I know this is really boring, but I'm just going to quickly read it so that they can see what you're you can see the mission is to support LGBTQ youth, their families and allies, to educate local community members and increase public awareness of the need to value and respect everyone, regardless of gender identity, expression, or sexual orientation.  The rationale for it is on the bottom of the sheet.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: There's a lot of data about what LGBT community members, particularly youth, experience. Just a select highlight. 41% of trans people attempt suicide. 56% of LGBT students experience discriminatory school

[9041-45] Lisa Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3 resident; TLC Family Resource Center and Rura | 2017-04-19
PREV> Lisa Draper: is to support LGBTQ youth, their families and allies, to educate local community members and increase public awareness of the need to value and respect everyone, regardless of gender identity, expression, or sexual orientation. The rationale for it is on the bottom of the sheet.
TEXT> There's a lot of data about what LGBT community members, particularly youth, experience.  Just a select highlight.  41% of trans people attempt suicide. 56% of LGBT students experience discriminatory school policies and practices. 65% of those students have heard homophobic remarks frequently or often. 80% of trans students feel unsafe at their school because of their gender expression. And 1 in 5 trans people will be homeless. Those that data is existing. The reverse side or the separate sheet for you brings you a little bit more current because unfortunately, since the election in November, there has been a dramatic increase in hate crimes  and anti-LGBTQ bullying. So I brought you that information as well. I wanted to just let you know what we're up to, because there are things that  members of the board may wish to take advantage of. There are things that students and staff members can take advantage of. We hosted a film watch party already for the gender revolution. Some of you may have seen the cover of the National Geographic magazine, and Katie Couric  chaired a special  on the topic. So we brought together a number of community members for that purpose. We've launched a series of educational monthly discussion groups.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: There's a flier for the next one coming up in Charlestown next month. The first one we held was actually this month at Newport Middle High School. It was kind

[9041-47] Lisa Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3 resident; TLC Family Resource Center and Rura | 2017-04-19
PREV> Lisa Draper: students who don't yet have the benefit of a GSA can also come with us. So that's super exciting. We're launching a caring adult peer support group. Caring adult means parent or guardian, or anyone raising or supporting a gender nonconforming child of any age.
TEXT> And I think it's really important to emphasize the caring adult, because often the person who is the caring adult is not the parent or guardian.  So that's an important group. And next up, we have  a GSA to launch at Claremont Middle School. There's been a student request for one. And in compliance with the Equal Access Act, we need to move on that right away. So we're looking forward to that as well as to launching  a youth drop in group after school  on site at TLC. And then finally, I just wanted to call your attention to an opportunity for staff members. I spoke with a number of folks at the NEA conference.  Well, week ago Saturday, I think. Dates are getting blurry now. The NEA, of course, has an underlying support statement for LGBT inclusivity.  Listen will be hosting and educators training in Concord at the New England College location there on the 19th of May. And I would invite everybody to come. You get full PD credits for it from 9 to 3 and it's only $90. And if anyone wants to carpool, since I'm a Glisson,  New Hampshire person, I will be driving there.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: So I thank you so much for all of your support and would really encourage you to check out the information that I've left there. It has all the contact

[9041-58] Prescott Herzog | Eighth-grade student, Claremont Middle School; New Hampshire student a | 2017-04-19
PREV> Prescott Herzog: our school became a Touchstone school, Claremont Middle School, by completing all the necessary steps where and we, me and three other people, as well as Lisa Duvall and Paul Petro from the CMS, will go to Gillette Stadium and go to the regional summit.
TEXT> And then, because I'm the New Hampshire State ambassador, I will attend the 2017 National Summit in Minnesota this July. Now  at Field to Play 60 at CMS. At CMS, we've created an optional survey on school meals where 49% of the students took part, which is pretty good considering it was an optional survey. We've implemented the plays  of highlighting healthy foods and also brain breaks, and we've also talked to School Food Administration for the action of 2017. In 2018 school year. Our main focus for next year is because of my myself being the ambassador. I have to do one main local thing. So we are going through the local dairy council to get smoothie machines at every single school inside of the school district next year. Now, with the student opinion on school meals during the survey, these were the top things that we came out of. And here's also a picture of what an average Friday lunch looks like at CMS.  71% of the students enjoyed the flavored milk at CMS. 80% of the students have never had a school breakfast. This is including six seventh and eighth grade, and 70% of the students say that they aren't represented in their school meals program. Now with CMS, the goals on food service, we the field 2060 program put it on ourselves and kind of created six main action items that we'd like to see.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: The school board, as well as the entire food service focus on throughout the next couple of years. The first one is to recognize school meals as a need for

[9041-59] Prescott Herzog | Eighth-grade student, Claremont Middle School; New Hampshire student a | 2017-04-19
PREV> Prescott Herzog: and 70% of the students say that they aren't represented in their school meals program. Now with CMS, the goals on food service, we the field 2060 program put it on ourselves and kind of created six main action items that we'd like to see.
TEXT> The school board, as well as the entire food service focus on throughout the next couple of years. The first one is to recognize school meals as a need for all students. Now, I'm a student athlete myself, and I know how sports are really important to the entire district, but they only represent, you know, a small bit of the community of students. And I also went to one of the Math Counts competitions at Dartmouth, and that was a great experience as well. But that only goes for a small amount of students now. School meals, that's for all the students inside of the school district. So we really need to have the focus and the present patient and really care about the school meals program, because this is not just representing a few bit of people, but everyone. Second was to expand student voice inside of the program.  As we heard from the committee, I from the past meeting, we saw that three school board members volunteered and ordered to be part of the program. I'd like to see, as part of the committee, for us to have at least two times to three times more students that are on that committee of school board members than to be a part of it, because school students are the buyers of school meals.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: And if you don't have the student, the buyers influence the decisions and purchases that's going on throughout the thing. You won't get that by. And school meals are all

[9041-60] Prescott Herzog | Eighth-grade student, Claremont Middle School; New Hampshire student a | 2017-04-19
PREV> Prescott Herzog: to see, as part of the committee, for us to have at least two times to three times more students that are on that committee of school board members than to be a part of it, because school students are the buyers of school meals.
TEXT> And if you don't have the student, the buyers influence the decisions and purchases that's going on throughout the thing. You won't get that by. And school meals are all about getting that buying and the continuing process of getting those foods. Now. The third is to enhance the quality of foods given to our students. I know that our school meal program is doing our best right now to try and do that, but if we could incorporate somehow more foods that are made instead of just warming it up. Also trying to cook a little bit more at the state, because I know that there is a lot of state of art equipment that we have that hasn't really been used or taken to its full capabilities.  To give more choice in planning and eating them to school meals.  I'd like to see having maybe a monthly board with this, this school service administration and trying to plan out the meals as well. And I know that the elementaries  of saw six school districts has also been,  once a month getting one get getting one meal that has been taken from the students. So if we could have that maybe more on a,  a, you know, a district wide program, just giving them more choice as well as per day, the meal, instead of just having, you know, the sandwich and the main meal, that might be something that we could do as well.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: And then also to explain the school breakfast program to implement grab and go. This is something that people to play succeed can really take in charge of and take

[9041-62] Prescott Herzog | Eighth-grade student, Claremont Middle School; New Hampshire student a | 2017-04-19
PREV> Prescott Herzog: know, Twinkies or something like that for your wind block, that might help even further. And the last one is to reduce food waste. My mom is a substitute teacher here in the school district, and at one of the schools that she was attending.
TEXT> It was a rainy day and they went inside and they had pears as a part of their as part of their school meals for the day. And she had 100. She saw 100 students go by. And because of those pears they were under, right. About 75% of those students through those pears away. Now, if even as I can think of that, as pretty much unacceptable, because if you think about how much, how much money, how much energy that takes in order to make that food and have it progress, and to see it just thrown away into the trash and having the taxpayers buy that for the school meals, it's absolutely absurd. And we should really try and figure out a way to make sure that that food, instead of being overripe and served to the students where they automatically thrown it away, giving it out so that we can have it. So it's good for the students as well, and maybe even a way for those students who really need that food to take it home and have that at home. Now we have any questions?
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Oh, yeah. First of all, Prescott, I want to say just a a fantastic job. It's just fantastic. My only my only question was if you could explain what. So

[9041-78] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [101]; 'to Ch | 2017-04-19
PREV> Prescott Herzog: the snacking opportunity, maybe because maybe that we could take those food, fruits and vegetables that weren't used and give those out during the wind blocks for teachers in order to give out a stacks so it would still be inside of the school boundaries.
TEXT> You I you got to be flabbergasted. And I don't get speechless much, but you just you nailed it. You're I'm sitting here as I'm watching YouTube talk, just watching the the current leadership of the school and the future leadership of the school. And it's just amazing. Amazes me. This is the stuff that nobody gets to see that much is how how great our our students are, how passionate you guys are and how involved and engaged you are. And I've said it for a while now, the reason things are happening at the school. And it's not just it's not just athletics, but at the academic, it's getting better and expanding. It's because of kids like you. So I really thank you for the effort and the passion that you've shown. But more importantly, you hit something I really thought about, to be quite honest. You know, we celebrate athletics like crazy lately, and I'm I'm one of them too. We celebrate academics like crazy. We never celebrate lunch. And that's the one thing that every kid needs.  Honestly, I never thought of it in that perspective. Never until you said that. That's a huge point that we need to hang our hats on, especially what we're going to be talking about with food service and what it changed my perspective. I mean, you really, honestly changed my perspective on going into this conversation because lunch has always just been that thing. Yeah, lunch.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: It's one of the students. It's the only thing students really ran about. That's kind of how it's gone. But they, you know, there's really significant aspects to it besides

[9041-79] Prescott Herzog | Eighth-grade student, Claremont Middle School; New Hampshire student a | 2017-04-19
PREV> Chris Irish: to hang our hats on, especially what we're going to be talking about with food service and what it changed my perspective. I mean, you really, honestly changed my perspective on going into this conversation because lunch has always just been that thing. Yeah, lunch.
TEXT> It's one of the students. It's the only thing students really ran about. That's kind of how it's gone. But they, you know, there's really significant aspects to it besides just, you know. Oh, it sucks or something like that. So.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, and I think you raised the other point too. It's just like athletics and academics. Things have gotten better around our district because more kids are getting a voice

[9041-82] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Patrick' [66, 256, 560];  | 2017-04-19
PREV> Unidentified: Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. Brilliant.
TEXT> Oh, one more question because, I'm breakfast.  So mentioned. So almost 71 1% of the students say,  oh, I'm sorry, I'm looking at them on one.  Oh, well, yeah, 71% of the students say they have not had school breakfast. Do we know of chance? How many of them are eating breakfast at all? Because I've always found that to be a big difference maker in student, in students, academically. It's getting that breakfast. Yeah.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: I know we did not. We did not go in that deep inside of it. We were going to do it next round of surveys next year in order to

[9041-90] Prescott Herzog | Eighth-grade student, Claremont Middle School; New Hampshire student a | 2017-04-19
PREV> Unidentified: It, on the ones that are sorry and the ones that are eligible, are they are those guys getting there on time or I mean, 30 minutes sounds like a lot. But when you start figuring in getting, they're getting.
TEXT> And there's certain meals that are much easier in order to take, grab and go. Like, I know that there's muffins and such, but most of the students that are there are taken by their parents or already live close by. I don't think that they've really incorporated the bus aspect of it, because there's such a low turnout right now currently that they're not thinking about  other students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely.

[9041-95] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (recognized as 'Corey' [179]; 'Corey L | 2017-04-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Corey.
TEXT> Just to, refer back to something that Patrick said and that,  Prescott said, the other issue that we discovered this year is that on delayed openings, breakfast is not served. And so we,  have prepared to remedy that by getting some extra granola bars and things of that nature so that they can be at the schools for those who don't have breakfast anywhere else. But as we move forward, think about what we can do for our kids, because,  I think the rationale is with the delayed opening, you know, it's so close to when the lunch is served anyway, when the kids finally arrived. But if your last meal wasn't since lunch the day before, that's a long time. Two hours makes a big difference at that point. And so having foods available for them. And the other idea is  we're in the process of working with Rethink Health,  through Dartmouth College and the,  the food, the soup kitchen in town to create food shelves in all of the schools that have stacks and things of that nature available for kids. So when we're talking about, you know, the lunch foods that maybe kids don't want to eat at lunch could be recycled, for lack of a better term, and  help to sustain and supply the food shelf that's available for all kids, not just those who need it, but all kids who might be hungry at any point during the day or before they
NEXT> Cory LeClair: leave. It's a way to better maximize and utilize all of the resources we have to ensure that, the kids, at least when they're with us, have what they need.

[9041-96] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (recognized as 'Corey' [179]; 'Corey L | 2017-04-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: could be recycled, for lack of a better term, and help to sustain and supply the food shelf that's available for all kids, not just those who need it, but all kids who might be hungry at any point during the day or before they
TEXT> leave.  It's a way to better maximize and utilize all of the resources we have to ensure that,  the kids, at least when they're with us, have what they need. We can't we can't dictate what happens when they go home. But at least when they're with us, we can make sure that their bellies are full and that they are taken care of. So I think it's a great idea to have a cart and whatnot.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[9041-115] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Pat Berry' [204]; 'Than | 2017-04-19
PREV> Patricia Barry: there were no surprises for us. So, we're going to use this as our blueprint moving forward for all the work that we do. And I'm, I'm encouraged because there's there's 31 things in here that talk highly about how great Stevens is as well.
TEXT> And we're really proud about that. And and for the sake of the public and this will be going on our website, it will be going out to the public via the newspaper. And we're required to share this in a variety of different places and venues. So the public will have access to see this entire report.  But, you know, they talk about the great job that we do with our career and technical instruction  about the available programing to support identified students, the wide range of technology tools that we use throughout S. S to assist and support services and deliver an effective range of coordinated services, class sizes and student load that allow staff to work closely with students. Financial support afforded for staff. Professional development teachers use a flex time to help promote relearning and reassessment opportunities for all students. The faculty who identify and regularly share with students the unit specific learning goals prior to the unit of study, and a major theme that runs throughout our commendations, is the way in which our faculty is dedicated and devoted to their students, and the close relationships that they have with their students, and the way students feel cared for by at least one adult in our building and feel supported and safe. So there's a lot for us to hang our hats on and be really proud of, and there's also some work for us to do. Any questions?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I read most of it. It was a pretty lengthy report, but I just wanted to reiterate what you said, and that's that they did lay out some good steps

[9041-117] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Pat Berry' [204]; 'Than | 2017-04-19
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: very good for me to be able to see it's one thing to hear you talk about it, but to actually see it and know that there is a report and and know all of that behind the scenes, it's really important for me to.
TEXT> So 21 kHz was another thing. You  and and that's part of that jargon that, you know, the public may not automatically see 21 see all over the place. What does that mean? Those 21st century learning skills known as soft skills or skills for successful learners.  Habits of learning.  What we taught cooperation, resilience. You know,  reliability, those skills that we currently have identified as being important. But we don't yet,  report out on. And that's one of the first things we've we've had these in place. But creating rubrics for how do you instruct that how do you model that? How do you teach reliability in the classroom? How do you teach persistence and perseverance in the classroom? And then how do you report out on it? But it's extremely important because a student can be a student but not be reliable. And both those pieces of information are extremely important to when we're really talking about the whole child and and painting a true picture of what kind of student that is. So,  and what that student needs to work on so that they can be better at that.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And we have that's the I think besides the whole time piece, really focusing on how we take that next step to make sure that by next year we're piloting

[9041-126] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Pat Berry' [204]; 'Than | 2017-04-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: these are it's very hard to do those things because, yes, I mean, we can assess those 21st century skills and the really important. How do you greet them? I don't know, and it sounds like a lot of people still don't have those answers.
TEXT> Well, there are a lot there are schools that are doing it. And, you know, just like with the schedule, it's not a matter of us reinventing the wheel. I think it's just finding one of those models that that works for Stevens and works for  our kids and and seeing figuring out which one of those, you know, white work for us as well. So it's being done. And, you know, I think a lot of people don't understand how isolating teaching is in reality. You walk in, you walk in your classroom in the morning, you see 79,100 kids, but you don't. And it's very possible that you don't speak to a single other adult by the time 207 rolls around. And and so you that need we have in a month, we have two hours, two total hours for our faculty, two separate hours, not even two hours together to do all this work. And that's not enough.  And it's not enough to re-energize. And teachers don't have the same prep. They don't have the same lunch. They're all over the place. So their ability to to share knowledge, to share techniques and strategies, to ask questions for our new teachers, to get the kind of mentoring every day that they really need from their more veteran colleagues. It doesn't exist. And we have to build that into to what we call our school day somehow.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Who?

[9041-139] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [101]; 'to Ch | 2017-04-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Excellent.
TEXT> I, I just wanted to come. There were two things that really struck me in this report. Well, the first one I didn't even think about, but, you know, we've lost 100% of our guidance department in the last two years. Turnover wise, that answers a lot of questions very quickly. And I like I think the word they used was obstacle, but I could be wrong. But when they talk about the challenge of our collective bargaining agreement, I think it's prudent that that is coming up now that we're heading there, because to Patrick's point and what I what my opinion of a lot of the issues in public education in general that I've seen firsthand on both sides of the aisle, we get silo mentality. And if nobody breaks down the silos, you end up with them and us them and us, them and us. And you cannot be successful if there's them and us, you can have a job, you can have a school district, but you will never have a community. And I think what I watched with those kids tonight, to me, if the adults could be like that, we'd have no problems.
NEXT> Chris Irish: We'd have an amazing school district and it's both sides. I'm not pointing on any sides on anybody, but we have got to get away from the silos. We've got

[9041-140] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [101]; 'to Ch | 2017-04-19
PREV> Chris Irish: there's them and us, you can have a job, you can have a school district, but you will never have a community. And I think what I watched with those kids tonight, to me, if the adults could be like that, we'd have no problems.
TEXT> We'd have an amazing school district and it's both sides. I'm not pointing on any sides on anybody, but we have got to get away from the silos. We've got to get out of the box, throw the box away, throw the collective bargaining away, start from scratch. And what's best for us to create a Claremont School community. Forget the district, a community. We really. That's the only way we survive. It's the only way we can get past where we are. We've talked about it since the budget, where we've hit the tipping point, we something's got to change. That's what will change. If we get together as a community and be more like those kids  and work together, the sky's the limit. As long as we have the silos, you're going to keep hitting the wall, walking in circles.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: The the chair of the visitation committee before he left us on the afternoon of the last day, spent about half an hour sharing his thoughts with the whole faculty.

[9041-141] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Pat Berry' [204]; 'Than | 2017-04-19
PREV> Chris Irish: something's got to change. That's what will change. If we get together as a community and be more like those kids and work together, the sky's the limit. As long as we have the silos, you're going to keep hitting the wall, walking in circles.
TEXT> The the chair of the visitation committee  before he left us on the  afternoon of the last day,  spent about half an hour sharing his thoughts with the whole faculty. Middleton was there that day. He had some really strong statements  and some really important advice that he shared with the faculty. The two really strong statements were exactly what you're talking about, that the only thing that is going to improve Stevens High School is the faculty of Stevens High School. And that our current grading system is not what it needs to be and that it needs to be seriously revisited in order for it to not be harmful to our students. That was one of the most powerful things I have ever heard from a visitation person, let alone a chair to a school.  And so I that's a focus. That's a focus for us. And,  we have the whole faculty has all year long, our agendas for our faculty meetings have been on competency based learning and standards based grading and really revisiting the whole package. And what is our philosophy of grading? What is our philosophy around instruction, learning and assessment? And then how do we report out on it?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: That's the last thing we figure out, not the first thing we figure out. And so we've gone back to the drawing board. We're not starting from scratch because the

[9041-162] Dale Chenette | Nominee for principal, Bluff Elementary School (ASR 'Dale Shannon', 'M | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: member on the screening committee went through every single application. We, using a rubric, identified the men and women who would go forward and the men and women who would not, and are very, very pleased and proud to introduce Dale Shannon. Welcome and congratulations.
TEXT> Well thank you. Good evening. I can tell you,  I'm honored that I was nominated by the committee. Humbled, really, to that. It was unanimous.  From the time I walked into the interview and started communicating with the interviewees. Just had a great sense of the commitment at Bluff Elementary.  How much dedication and love they have for the school and care for the students. I have since. As of yesterday, had the opportunity to go over to Bluff Elementary. I spent half a day there, getting to meet students and visiting classrooms,  talking further with the staff. And actually, at the end of the day,  was essentially the center of the staff meeting at the end of the day where I had the opportunity to stand there and take questions from all staff members. And again, just had that  sort of that same those same feelings.  Reinforced, you know, the sense of commitment.  They were very open and honest about, how they feel about the school, what they're looking for in a leader. Asked, you know, countless questions of me, which I hope I answer to their satisfaction. I got the sense I did. So again, I'm very honored to be here. Happy  that my name that I was nominated and look forward to to serving.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any questions for the nominee? I'll. I'll accept a motion. We're going to go easy on you tonight.

[9041-181] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: charter schools. We have parochial schools, private schools. There were children who were homeschooled. That's the parents choice. And they should be supported and we do support them. However, it's important that you understand that the school voucher bill, Senate Bill 93, has some problems.
TEXT> Approximately $63 million destined for public schools in New Hampshire is part of the problem. If this bill was, if it passes and it is fully utilized by charter school students and home school students, there'll be a drawdown of about $25 million money that would normally go to public schools. I am not being critical of home school students. I'm not being critical about charter schools. I'm being critical about this bill. 38 million would be dispersed to an estimated 12,000 private school students. Likewise, I am not talking about private schools. I'm talking about this bill. If fully maximized, $63 million. So what happens when money is taken from New Hampshire public schools if this bill passes? The answer? Property taxes  or we make major changes in programs being offered by our students. Not a good solution. But this has happened before, and this is why it's very problematic. $43 million was shifted to property taxes in 2009, when the lawmakers limited school building 880 million was shifted to property taxpayers when the state's contribution to the cost of teacher retirement was eliminated. This has happened before. Inflation has outpaced adequacy funding by 12% since 1999, and now we know that adequacy aid is at risk and is being reduced. A half $1 million inadequacy aid was reduction of that impacted us in this fiscal year. So this gap, by the way, in inflation outpacing adequacy funding amounts to $98 million of additional property taxes annually.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: These figures come out of a public report. So I I'm not talking about this casually, and I'm not being at all generalizing. I want to be sure you understand

[9041-184] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: their legislators and to Concord. Being a New Hampshire school board member is very difficult. And one of the reasons it's difficult is because you are in elected position. Very important elected position, but a position, however, that requires you to have a certain mindset.
TEXT> Dealing with the diversity and past couple of years I've noticed some things. So I want to share with you what I've noticed. Not to tell you what to do, but to ask you to reflect. It's going to be a difficult year. Preparing for fiscal year 19 enrollments declining. State revenue is declining, educational costs are increasing. There are changes in the New Hampshire political horizon. Why would you ever want to be on the school board? You're sitting here because you care about children, and you want what's best for the children and the community. That's why you're here, and you deserve to be applauded.  But it can't be a popularity contest, and it can't be a process where you're going to appease people. You have to listen to people. But at the end, you're going to have to ask the question, how can we do business differently? Because there's change and we cannot expect the balance or the offset of that change to be on real estate tax. So when we talk about the fiscal year 19 budget later this spring, you begin get really rolling up our sleeves. We're going to have to carefully look at the programs and practices, rethink the budget, find efficiencies, which we've been doing, by the way, for several years. That's why if you look at the growth in the annual report of the budget, it's almost a flat line.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The blip was the high school project. I'm not sure how many more efficiencies there are, but it doesn't mean we're walking over a cliff. If we stay on point

[9041-195] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Unidentified: I've.
TEXT> Known superintendents and I'm one of them from Massachusetts who dealt with a school committee. We call them committees in Massachusetts, where some of the board members, good people. But they could fix it themselves. And it just was such confusion.  And it didn't work because there were too many cooks and there was too much salt being a to much pepper and all that in the soup. And it just was it wasn't worth it. Understand and act by representing all students. That is a board's critical. You sit here not to appease adults or to appease me, or to appease administration. We will piece each other. You sit here because you're representing all the students. That's a lot of responsibility. Your decisions are going to impact children. That's not a light. Recognize that your decisions must be made in the interests of the entire district. And here's the rough part. And not solely for special interest groups. Now that's tough. You get a phone call at 7:00 at night, and someone. I voted for you. And here's the problem. And I expect it to be addressed. That information is important to be shared.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But it's very important that you don't make any kind of promise or are influenced by 1 or 2 people. You know, we're talking about constituents versus students. There you

[9041-196] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: rough part. And not solely for special interest groups. Now that's tough. You get a phone call at 7:00 at night, and someone. I voted for you. And here's the problem. And I expect it to be addressed. That information is important to be shared.
TEXT> But it's very important that you don't make any kind of promise or  are influenced by 1 or 2 people. You know,  we're talking about constituents versus students. There you are. School board member lifting up your flat. And you have a line of residents who now want to feel your ear. You they deserve to be listened to and they should be listened to. But as a board member, we have to be cautious. Their information should come back to the board. But one board member, two board members can't be influenced by a few people. Information needs to be shared. But then at the end of the day, it's a board decision. And in truth, you can't solve everyone's problems or meet their needs. We've had residents come up and they've expressed themselves. It's been uncomfortable.  They have every right to say what they're saying. They should be listened to and respected. But it's not your responsibility to appease or to comply. Primary focus. Your primary obligation is student achievement. And this is very difficult. And I use this phrase before. And it's not being disrespectful to adults, to teachers, to administrators, to principals. It's not. But school improvement needs to be based on students needs, not the needs of adults. I thought anti adult. I think our success is when adults communicate with each other and work together. But at the end of the day.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: How does it benefit students? And if that can't be answered and shown and measured, then what are we doing it for? So today. Being a New Hampshire school board

[9041-197] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: administrators, to principals. It's not. But school improvement needs to be based on students needs, not the needs of adults. I thought anti adult. I think our success is when adults communicate with each other and work together. But at the end of the day.
TEXT> How does it benefit students? And if that can't be answered and shown and measured, then what are we doing it for? So today. Being a New Hampshire school board member is very difficult. It's really very important. It's really very important. And, and, and I wanted to share these thoughts with you because with what's coming down the pike, I think, and with the challenges of funding, which I anticipate would happen, but I'm not sure. We've got to be careful about how we do business. We have to be very clear, and we have to also, communicate upfront. Here's an example. I need to know a front. Maybe not tonight, but soon. If you as a board want to meet again like you did last year without administration, now, I would recommend you don't do that. Because it's not that we're trying to control you. I don't control any of you. But this is too important to be disconnected and communication and honest, give and take. It is critical. What you do is so important, and I just wanted to share my experiences in the past year. Not to say to scold you, but to say we can't. We have to be careful with how we do business. And this is what I observed. If I were the school board member and the superintendent of schools was feeling what I felt, I would want to hear from him or her. And so that's what I've done tonight.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thoughts?

[9041-234] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [101]; 'to Ch | 2017-04-19
PREV> Chris Irish: on Facebook or the constituents, that one person or that one group. You see, that's not the constituency. My opinion, the constituency, you know, you're supposed to represent the people that voted for you and hopefully equally represent the people who didn't vote for you.
TEXT> We all try to do that the best we can. It's not that simple. But I guess my point is, when it comes to that constituency question, we really need to think about the people yelling and screaming honestly on Facebook  are not our constituents. They may be in a practical, you know, human being standpoint, but from all honesty, that's not the focus we should be focusing on because they want us to do one thing and one thing only. No matter what you say to them, if you don't do it, they're going to throw you out with the bathwater. So to me, that's a that's a really great point that, you know, we really need to think about what is that person really want. Do they care about our kids or do they care about their tax bill? What do they care about that other issue? It's hard for us. It's absolutely hard to be, especially in New Hampshire. It's hard to be on a board. But when all is said and done, you really got to think about the people that are yelling at you, what's their motive and what's your motive? So that's just I think that was a that was a great point. I'm thinking.
NEXT> Unidentified: About back to the Senate Bill 93 had your question. I don't know if you have any estimated numbers of we have some estimated numbers how that would affect the

[9041-240] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (uncertain - not self-identified; speaks | 2017-04-19
PREV> Unidentified: So I'm just I'm just trying to put all these numbers together to get the picture that, I mean, this could be a huge number, half $1 million coming out of the Claremont's budget.
TEXT> Right. And just as a point of clarification, we do not currently get paid adequacy aid for any of these students that we're talking about. The way, the way what this bill would do was basically give adequacy to the other institutions that are educating these children. So if we had transfers out after this bill was passed, that's when you'd see the impact on the budget.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[9041-247] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [101]; 'to Ch | 2017-04-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: take that the that they only want the money to be to be coming from what schools are already getting per student. So parents are already kind of have their kids in private school. They're not from my understanding, they weren't going to get anything.
TEXT> Well, there's there's the point. I wanted to get you real quick because that is the myth of the whole school choice concept, especially in Claremont and in New Hampshire in general. Giving someone $3,000 to to send their kid to $20,000 school, they're still not going to be able to afford that $20,000 school. So the only people that are going to benefit for them from this bill or any other bill for school choice in New Hampshire, are people that can already afford to send their kid to private school. I've had people talking to me. They think all of a sudden all of us are going to have a choice to send our kids to private school. If my my daughter was still in school, I couldn't have I couldn't afford to send her to a $17,000 school. I don't care if you gave me 10,000 of it. So the point is, there's there's no such thing as school choice. It's subsidizing the people that already can afford to send their kids to private schools. So that that to me is more important sometimes than the dollar amounts. That's the myth that's getting thrown around that somehow all of us are going to benefit the only people that benefit of the people that can already afford that, that option. The rest of us is still not going to be a choice, but the choice that we have in our public school is going to suffer.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So those people can subsidize something they can already afford. It just drives me crazy the way they're selling this bill of goods.

[9041-252] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Patrick' [66, 256, 560];  | 2017-04-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: So that's.
TEXT> The fixation on pure the whole pure pupil money ratio. It's a there's this fixation on it. It's just me. Absolutely nuts because education doesn't work that way. So people start thinking that they start thinking of each child costing 5000 or well.
NEXT> Chris Irish: They lowered. They lowered the bar so much just by calling it adequate. Let's have an adequate. I don't want my kid to have adequate. You do. I want my

[9041-390] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Take some time off. That's right. Okay. We have Monadnock.
TEXT> In your, in your packet. Part of my conversation with Ryan McNutt. He sent me an email 2 or 3 weeks ago. He said, you know, the track surface had been knocked, is 2 or 3 years late to be resurfaced. These tracks, composite tracks are not a a multi-decade track and they need to be resurfaced. Should have been done two years ago. They'd like to do it this year. Now, this is how it came about. They don't have. They are they have the budget to do the entire track  or to do the job for 81,700, he said, look, could could the school board help out because we certainly use that track.  And in the spirit of being partners with the city, because the city benefits our students and the school district benefits the city, and because what we budgeted for fiscal year 17, we anticipated certain things happening that didn't happen. Therefore,  we do have and Michael O'Neill will elaborate if you want to, but we do have the $11,787 to partner with the City of Claremont and to resurface the track.  This is three weeks old. We didn't talk about it when we were doing this year's budget. But I didn't want to go forward without being public about it and having you your reaction in support of it.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's really all that they need, I think.

[9041-432] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (uncertain - not self-identified; speaks | 2017-04-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yes, please.
TEXT> I met with Doug Beaupre yesterday to kind of talk about this and to talk about, you know,  the conditions down there and what what we could do to improve it for our students. And there was a discussion concerning adding a second jump lane. Now  I'm looking at it on Google Earth. It looks like there's enough room or certainly I need to go down there, but that's something that I'd like to bring up with Parks and Rec as part of this discussion with the that's preventing us from hosting meets. And again, what we want to do, as we've been talking about here is get get the people here, get more people to come to Claremont, then we could host a track. Me. So that's something that's part of that discussion with the track. If I can see if it would be possible to do that. Because essentially with the long jump and the triple jump, you can't just have one jump spot and have to have a me. So that's the only thing I'd just like. To add.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, and to, to to Mike's point, this is not the first thing we've been doing the last couple of years. Last year, there's a new electronic scoreboard going down

[9041-511] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (recognized as 'Corey' [179]; 'Corey L | 2017-04-19
PREV> Chris Irish: Oh, boy.
TEXT> We have been working with the Sri around a calendar.  The way the contract reads is they can provide recommendations for consideration related to the calendar. But there are other sections of the agreement that, spell out the number of days for students, the number of days for staff, and the number of professional development days. And so we're working to resolve  a calendar that works better for both teachers and for students. In the meantime, though, I know that families are are looking for dates and for information. So at this point, what we can share or what we'd like to be able to share is that we will be starting that Monday or the Tuesday after Labor Day, as we did this current school year. So that's September 5th for all students in grades  one through 12. Kindergarten will start the following week. Again, as we did this year. And then the winter breaks and spring breaks will be the same as the New Hampshire recommended calendar. So there'll be  roughly a week off for the Christmas New Year holiday. The February break will be the last week of February, first week of March and April break off the top of my head.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I'm not sure that the dates, but it will align with, the New Hampshire recommended calendar. Why that's important is that this year? And I'm not sure how we came

[9041-512] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (recognized as 'Corey' [179]; 'Corey L | 2017-04-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: be the same as the New Hampshire recommended calendar. So there'll be roughly a week off for the Christmas New Year holiday. The February break will be the last week of February, first week of March and April break off the top of my head.
TEXT> I'm not sure that the dates, but it will align with, the New Hampshire recommended calendar. Why that's important is that this year? And I'm not sure how we came up with what we ended up doing at this point, but our week for the vacation wasn't in alignment with some of the districts around us, particularly Newport. And when we share CTE students and you have  an entire week of vacation, that's different. That's two weeks worth of instruction that's lost for those students who are shared between the two CTE centers. And so in conversations with Newport, they had not prepared their calendar yet, but they were willing the superintendent was willing to look at a similar start date as our start date, as we could  adjust our our February vacation or our April vacation to align with their. So it was an easy an easy switch. So that's what we have at this point. And then waiting to hear back from the Serra around more specific details of professional development days when those will happen and things like that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay. September 5th. Got it. And we need to do a nonpublic, I'll take a motion for 91. A three Roman numeral two. See?

[9073-16] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides: calls to order, runs agenda, c | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Yep.
TEXT> Yeah, I know that there's a peer  or  mentoring group.  Some of the high school kids go to the elementary schools. And just speaking with some of the teachers at at Maple. The kids that are there, they're just they're just great kids that come down from the high school. And I love seeing it. You know, it's really just a sense of pride seeing how these kids interact and come down and work with the the younger students. And, you know, they're those three, you know, they're involved in all that stuff. So it's it's it's just another great thing that we see with our schools.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I agree. And if I can piggyback on what you've just said, Brian, and of course, we're celebrating Stevens High School. But at one time these were middle school students

[9073-23] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: We have a superintendents report.
TEXT> Thank you. Thanks. And good evening.  Referring to the packet.  I started the practice of putting some back up information in  the packet regarding my report, and? And one deals with resilience, the biology of stress and the science of hope. We have been involved with  a commitment, a community outreach commitment to  address the needs of our students  as well as  our community. And,  the we did have the opportunity of participating in  a film resilience, a biology of Stress and the science of hope. We've also televised Paper Tigers, one high school's unlikely success story. And the whole theme behind this is how students in adverse situations.  Can, with the appropriate support,  work through and be successful that many times would stop  a student without those intervention aces adverse childhood experiences. And to read from resilience when we respond with compassion to those who have experienced trauma and give families the tools they need to raise healthy children from the start. We develop systems that enable people to thrive, adapt and cope despite trauma.  Childhood trauma can take many forms. And  I will send to you a checklist of what experiences a child will have that could be described as adverse childhood experiences.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: When you look at that list. Most of us, as adults have had certain experiences of trauma. Excessive experiences can have a major impact, but it doesn't mean the child

[9073-24] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: from the start. We develop systems that enable people to thrive, adapt and cope despite trauma. Childhood trauma can take many forms. And I will send to you a checklist of what experiences a child will have that could be described as adverse childhood experiences.
TEXT> When you look at that list. Most of us, as adults have had certain experiences of trauma.  Excessive experiences can have a major impact, but it doesn't mean the child is damaged for life. But that type of intervention has to be acknowledged. Need. Need for intervention has to be acknowledged. And we also have to have that compassion and awareness. And so resilience talks about  stress and also talks about strategies to assist a child with the resilience to compensate for their experience. We know that adverse childhood experiences can have long term effects on utilization of our health care system. By making an effort today to equip our children and families with tools they need to, they can overcome  adverse childhood experiences. But the consequences of adverse childhood experiences cut across professional disciplines, personal relationships, and all socio economic demographics. So this is across the board. And the good news is we're talking about it and we're discussing strategies to assist every one of us. I know I have experienced in my life certain adverse childhood experiences. When I send you that checklist.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I'm sure you have two, but with the appropriate accommodations, one can go forward. And so these the videos and the films that we've been showing in discussions that have

[9073-30] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: this what it enables us to do is resolve some scheduling conflicts that might occur with our regular high school schedule, with our running start courses. This adds the flexibility for students to be able to take the same course, but at a different time.
TEXT> You're absolutely right. Thank you Frank. And so the Claremont School District and River Valley Community College have met and continue to meet to identify how we can bridge the gaps, identify the obstacles for students and to remediate the these the best we can. The most important thing is that we are committed to have this partnership,  and this is even we're also talking about even identifying students in grade eight  who will be participating in further academic opportunities in technology at River Valley Community College. So there's a great deal of talk about here, and we're going to continue to keep you updated. But the key for me is simply this,  students need to know long before they become junior to the seniors what their options and opportunities are. And you don't have to be a young man or a woman of a wealthy family to consider college. And the other key to remember is that we are shortchanging our students.  If high school education is their last training, because most of the vocations today require additional training beyond high school. 50 years ago, 40 years,  that wasn't the case. Soon after World War Two, only 50% of the students in high school finished high school. But they could find vocation.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: They could raise a family, buy a house. Many of those jobs are gone. And so it's important we're not pushing for a four year university education, but we are

[9073-46] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the administration are working collectively and collaboratively to develop a schedule with some of the parameters that I've talked about, knowing that we don't have until the end of the 20 1718 to wrap this up. So this should come to closure in February 2018.
TEXT> And so there can be plans to prepare.  And one of the things that's very important,  and the article in yesterday's Valley News regarding the CTE, greater access to our tech center, unintentionally,  there are some barriers accessing our tech center with our current schedule. So that has to be remediated. In my view, this center needs to be maximized. And if you read the article  that was in yesterday's Valley News, it talked about the declining enrollment,  here at our tech center,  even though tech centers enrollment are increasing in comparison to the climbing enrollment of public high schools in New Hampshire,  it's still going to be very important  that we look at maximizing the access of our student population and perhaps even beginning along before grade 11. So, more on that. But I just wanted to emphasize and very pleased to talk about,  the scheduling committee. I have great, great expectations.  I like the mindset of the teachers and the administration working together. There are reasonable guidelines, and they're committed. They're committed to develop a schedule that that meets  the needs of our of our student body. Now and in the future. I did talk to you about the food Service committee that has been formed, that food service committee representing school board members, the student body, as well as staff. This particular committee, however,  which we are hoping to hear some presentations of food service vendors tonight.  That will not occur until early June.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Mike, can I ask you could you just clarify, what our obstacle is to have vendors here at this time?

[9073-85] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: a full time work co-op program this summer with Arc mechanical and is the process of working with Christine Downey and Doug Morton to develop a Summer L so he can also earn graduation credits and make the experience as memorial as memorable as possible.
TEXT> So what is exciting about this is that we are partnering with local businesses, and we are expanding on our extended learning opportunities, where students with these partnerships and local businesses  can not only earn hands on experiences and acquire these skill sets and accreditation, but also at the same time. Excuse me. Complete their high school requirement. So remember we talked about in today's age, a high school diploma is inadequate for the vocations and the expectations that students will face following high school, which seems to be heresy for those who are who are 50 or 60 or 70 years old because of high school education, 30, 40 years ago really was a great foundation for being able to acquire employment. But times have changed and and the expectations of employers has changed. So this is, I think, one classic example of Christine Downey dealing with the high school curriculum,  facilitating extended learning opportunities for students  to work with local businesses. So it's a partnership. The businesses benefit, our students benefit, our community benefits. And this is just the beginning.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think one of the components of the l o is, is a culminating presentation to audience. I think it would be very I speak for myself. I don't know

[9073-89] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [162, 166]; c | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks that.
TEXT> I think this is a great example of what happens when when people beat the streets and connect the dots between our kids and the local businesses. And it's  also why I think we need to keep this ready when we start having the tech center conversation from a budget standpoint or whatever we decide to do going forward. Because this speaks back to something we lost years ago is having a part time probably a full time, but at least a part time co-op coordinator for the center alone, whose sole purpose is to do more of this. Because with one person doing this, you could increase this a lot. And it's pretty, I would say most impossible for the high school curriculum coordinator to do that job in this job as well. So to me, this is something we really need to think about from the tech center as we go forward. If we're going to increase programs and we want the kids to be able to get this kind of opportunity, having a person whose sole purpose in life every day is to do just that. I think this is a great example of why we need to do that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: The questions.

[9073-102] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: There is.
TEXT> A four sided document, two pages on the on the top it says full day kindergarten. It's very important that you be aware  of the following.  The Senate in March passed Senate Bill 191 at the bill that would implement Governor Sununu plan to provide targeted funding for full day kindergarten to communities across the state.  This legislation, by the way, reflects the view of 85% of New Hampshire voters who said that it is critical that we fund for early childhood education and make it a priority. In a November poll commissioned by Save the Children Action Network, what's important to be reminded of is that by the age of five, a child's brain is nearly completely developed. Yet our state pays only half of the cost to adequately educate that kindergarten child. Without full day kindergarten, too many kids fall behind and at a young age and have difficulty catching up to their peers. I'm very pleased to tell you that if this is approved,  the Claremont School District could receive an additional up two additional $3,000. But no, this. But know this. This is not a slam dunk. And as you go through this,  it's going to be important for you to note. And there is a underneath where it says full day kindergarten.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: There are a list of I have on this sheet a listed the Republicans who represent Claremont. There is some discussion. The House leadership in Concord is in opposition to

[9073-103] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: receive an additional up two additional $3,000. But no, this. But know this. This is not a slam dunk. And as you go through this, it's going to be important for you to note. And there is a underneath where it says full day kindergarten.
TEXT> There are a list of I have on this sheet a listed the Republicans who represent Claremont. There is some discussion. The House leadership in Concord is in opposition to this bill. So it's going to be critical that we reach out to moderate Republicans who have shown support for public education in the past. And so you have their names, Francis Gauthier and John O'Connor. Even though it makes sense, even though it's good for kids, it doesn't mean it's going to pass. This is this bill, governor Sununu $18 million biennium plan to fund targeted full day kindergarten is a crucial first step in ensuring that all children have access to full day kindergarten. Now we have full day kindergarten, so this doesn't fit us. Yes, it does fit us though. We have full day kindergarten. We have it because of some strategic restructuring that we did two years ago that enabled the community to implement. In fact, that restructuring was to the point where the the fiscal year where full day kindergarten was implemented. The budget was $14,000 less than the previous year. That was done.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's what strategic restructuring is about. But knowing that we cannot continue that model unless we start eliminating programs. So I just want to emphasize this, and I'm saying this

[9073-104] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: strategic restructuring that we did two years ago that enabled the community to implement. In fact, that restructuring was to the point where the the fiscal year where full day kindergarten was implemented. The budget was $14,000 less than the previous year. That was done.
TEXT> That's what strategic restructuring is about. But knowing that we cannot continue that model unless we start eliminating programs. So I just want to emphasize this, and I'm saying this publicly to the Claremont community, even though it makes sense and it's good for kids, and the Claremont community could benefit by $300,000 to support full day kindergarten, which we are now funding ourselves. This doesn't mean it's going to pass, and we need to be sure that Mr. and Mr. O'Connor,  are aware of that. We certainly could contact other Representatives or senators, but unless they are representatives, unless they are representing Claremont, they may not be, may not, may not be listening with that type of intensity. Senate Bill 191 does not mandate that any community adopt full day kindergarten, but it does provide funding for those that do based upon a formula that incorporates the number of pupils receiving free reduced lunch, and for whom English is the second language. And this goes on to say that targeted funding to communities that need it most is an appropriate way to fund full day kindergarten. I'm hearing the word adequacy, and what's interesting is long before I arrived in Claremont, there was a Claremont suit or lawsuit. And the Supreme Court, I am aware, indicated, yes, it is the responsibility of Concord to support adequate education for all children.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: In truth, the ZIP code of a child has a major impact on the resources. Not to diminish the work of others in the past, but the playing field is

[9073-143] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I believe so, Brian.
TEXT> I made a mistake, by the way, and I omitted mentioning the four Ridge Road robots headed to National Sea perch challenge. In your packet is an article with the pictures  of forage rogue robots.  And they will be here on May 17th to make a presentation. These are Claremont. A lot of them are Claremont students.  And they deserve recognition for their accomplishment,  and unintentionally, with everything else going on, I haven't given them as much attention as I perhaps would. So I've asked to be kept more informed so we can celebrate every student success and looking at their picture. They're a pretty remarkable group of students. They've been here before and we're welcoming them back. May 17th. Wow.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Everybody good? Okay.

[9073-187] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Michelle, did you hav | 2017-05-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anybody else for citizens comments?
TEXT> I just like to say that the, the heart of Claremont met last night as a citizen. And we are getting ready to gear up to start our flower boxes and the kids piling around with the wagons this summer. So be on the lookout. And if you'd like to volunteer, give us a holler at the heart of Claremont or the Post, and we'll have some postings up to. But soon. But just want to be on the lookout for little red wagons and lots of kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9073-212] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher; Saint-Gaudens centennial e | 2017-05-03
PREV> Don Dexter: Or have you considered this resource? So we really hope that teachers will look to us as places where they can have first contact when they need something, in order to connect to their community.
TEXT> So in closing,  what does it look like?  How does it work? Well, in a science classroom, it looks very much like what we've done in Stevens High School already, where students learn about the ecosystem. They learn about the the water table and how the how the landscape works with  together. And then they go and do field studies and they, they do real, meaningful full work. It's not just simply an exercise, place based learning or project based learning. Whatever you want to call it is not taking the kids on a field trip. It's instead it is. It's knocking down the walls and making the community the classroom.  And that it is the  the community engaging with the classroom. So it was like the Civil War project I work with, where I met with the  Civil War  Roundtable in Claremont and had them help me  learn about my students, and I learn about the Claremont soldiers in town and find out what their stories were. And the reason why we came here was not only to tell you about the, the, the initiatives we're working on, but also to ask you to put it in, put it in the the pot of all the things that are brewing right now, and consider ways that that  you can come up with to work with Saint-Gaudens and Sullivan County Extension, because that's how great alternatives to the regular classroom work in the 21st century.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: We all have to think outside the box, think outside the classroom to make school meaningful and relevant and really, really a the most positive learning experience our students can

[9073-213] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher; Saint-Gaudens centennial e | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: in the the pot of all the things that are brewing right now, and consider ways that that you can come up with to work with Saint-Gaudens and Sullivan County Extension, because that's how great alternatives to the regular classroom work in the 21st century.
TEXT> We all have to think outside the box, think outside the classroom to make school meaningful and relevant and really, really a the most positive learning experience our students can have.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Sure.

[9073-308] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher; Saint-Gaudens centennial e | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you very much. Great.
TEXT> I'm going to stay up here because I'm. And I'll start as they come. So you asked us to come back to you, to meet with you, when we got back from youth in government. And so we have some representatives here and my colleague Jill Chastain,  she and I are the advisors in this this, extracurricular activity that Stevens High School has been involved with for years. And every year I've come and begged permission to take Stevens High School's best and brightest lawmakers.  And every year you've granted us permission. And we wanted to just share a little bit of what  youth and government is about. If you're afraid that our children are not getting the  foundations of  civic life, well, you're wrong. Here we have. Next we have the next generation of lawmakers. Why don't you go ahead and pass out the the bills? And, Jill, do you have anything to say?
NEXT> Jill Chastain: I was with the kids this year for the overnight trip because Nancy had her own trip.

[9073-309] Jill Chastain | Stevens High School teacher (honors civics), Youth and Government co-a | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: afraid that our children are not getting the foundations of civic life, well, you're wrong. Here we have. Next we have the next generation of lawmakers. Why don't you go ahead and pass out the the bills? And, Jill, do you have anything to say?
TEXT> I was with the kids this year for the overnight trip because Nancy had her own trip.
NEXT> Unidentified: Literally.

[9073-312] Jill Chastain |  | 2017-05-03
PREV> Kirsten Burlingame: And so.
TEXT> I tried to keep track of what they were doing. And luckily for me, I've had all of these kids in honors civics and  honors civics seems to be a really good feeder program for  youth and government. We also want to try. We've been talking about it for a couple of years, taking some other kids that maybe haven't thought about doing youth and government.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: We'd like to take them with us for pre ledge so they can see what it's like, and then hopefully we can hook them in and make our delegation bigger

[9073-313] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Michelle, did you hav | 2017-05-03
PREV> Jill Chastain: honors civics and honors civics seems to be a really good feeder program for youth and government. We also want to try. We've been talking about it for a couple of years, taking some other kids that maybe haven't thought about doing youth and government.
TEXT> We'd like to take them with us for pre ledge so they can see what it's like, and then hopefully we can hook them in and make our delegation bigger because  as Charlene and pointed out about lobbyists,  having a large delegation going down to youth and government is very valuable in gaining votes and having their votes in their bills and committee to be at the top, rather at the bottom.
NEXT> Jill Chastain: And this was kind of experienced a lot this year in youth and government. The lobbyist I ended up being outside where the lobbyists were scheming the night before the

[9073-314] Jill Chastain |  | 2017-05-03
PREV> Michelle Pierce: our delegation bigger because as Charlene and pointed out about lobbyists, having a large delegation going down to youth and government is very valuable in gaining votes and having their votes in their bills and committee to be at the top, rather at the bottom.
TEXT> And this was kind of experienced a lot this year in youth and government. The lobbyist I ended up being outside where the lobbyists were scheming the night before  the Saturday legislation, and apparently a lot of lobbyists showed up at certain committee meetings and not at others, and bombarded the meetings  all.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: Nine through 12th grade.

[9073-316] Jill Chastain |  | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: Nine through 12th grade.
TEXT> And yeah, and they they knew what they were doing. So it was really interesting to see the lobbyists, you know, eavesdropping and Haiti, you know, this person, we got to talk to that person. We got to, you know, go to that person and talk to them.  So they really do get to live the process in youth and government. And we had  one of our students, a few of our students bills did get through the committee. They did not get heard on the floor.  Nick Stone had a bill that I  know is going out there  on  welfare, which it made it through committee, which I was worried it wouldn't because at first it got tabled. And usually if a bill gets tabled, they don't always necessarily go back to them. But they did. And with some amendments  it did get through committee.  Unfortunately it did not get read on the floor, but it did get heard in the judicial branch  and part of it was considered unconstitutional. And  another part of it, the was constitutional. So Nick's bill got double billing.  And there was another bill. I don't know what one's  all got out there, but, Nathan Savas bill was another one. I was worried I was worried about that bill  not making it again because it got tabled,  but they brought it back and his bill also made it through.  Unfortunately,  Brayden Burt had wrote a bill.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: He wrote a bill that you have in that packet.

[9073-318] Jill Chastain |  | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: He wrote a bill that you have in that packet.
TEXT> Yeah. And it was on  reusable bags. And I thought it was a really good  bill.  Well written. Yeah. And unfortunately, it didn't get through one of the things that our students noticed,  and, and was very true this year of youth and government. All the chairman at youth and government this year were green.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: In committees.

[9073-320] Jill Chastain |  | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: In committees.
TEXT> Yeah. In the committees all the chairman had never been chairman before. And  Marion had pointed out when she was in committee that she was helping out the chairman, even though she was co-chair.  And I got to witness it and I could see her, you know, giving the chair advice. And, and Brayden had the same experience because they weren't as knowledgeable about being chairs, where our students were able to step up and help them.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: Cam Cameron, I want to I would love you to hear what they have to say, but I'm going to give you a lead today. I, when we met and

[9073-323] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher; Saint-Gaudens centennial e | 2017-05-03
PREV> Cameron: the ordinary person to know than what you get in school. So it was definitely a great experience, very enriching to actually play the part and be part of it. Even if you don't intend to get into politics, it's still a great learning experience.
TEXT> Marion, you're you're a senior,  rep here. What what do you get from youth in government?
NEXT> Marion Lovett: So this past year, I attended the United States Youth Senate program, in which two students from every state are chosen and they meet together in D.C., capital. And they

[9073-324] Marion Lovett | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior ('Mari | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: Marion, you're you're a senior, rep here. What what do you get from youth in government?
TEXT> So this past year, I attended the United States Youth Senate program, in which two students from every state are chosen and they meet together in D.C., capital. And they go to the Senate, they meet the president, they go see the Supreme Court. I mean, this is an incredible experience. And  I  thought, these are the best and brightest of America. These are going to be a future leaders. And then I go to youth in government every year. And the similarities between the people are incredible. So when you say like, oh, well, I'm not the top of my class or I wasn't chosen for this United States Senate program, that doesn't mean you still lack the ability to change the world. And these people that youth in government, I mean, if you ever talk to someone our age, people often think they're younger, they're unexperienced or inexperience. They don't understand what they're talking about. And then you go to youth in the government, and then you hear these people and you're just like.
NEXT> Don Dexter: Wow.

[9073-328] Clara | Stevens High School freshman, Youth and Government delegate (first nam | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: And Clara is our engineer. She's a freshman and she she joined up. Clara, did you know much about this program before you started?
TEXT> To be honest, I really didn't. It was actually Miss Chastity who came up to me, and she asked, you're going to join youth in government, right?
NEXT> Unidentified: And I was.

[9073-336] Cameron | Stevens High School student, Youth and Government delegate (first name | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: Come up? Good question. That's the hardest thing isn't it?
TEXT> I picked mine because I had to write a bill and even more comprehensive bill for her class. And that was on, it was on drug use. And so I took that and I,  went toward the opioid crisis for my bill for youth in government. So that's how I got my idea.
NEXT> Marion Lovett: For mine, I'm a huge ego person. I loved healthy environment, but I also saw a huge struggle in New Hampshire with our vacated mill districts. And I noticed that,

[9073-339] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher; Saint-Gaudens centennial e | 2017-05-03
PREV> Clara: can make that can help animals? And I read this article saying that animals are like they're commonly used as cosmetic test subjects, and it affects the animal physically and mentally. So I decided to write a bill banning cosmetic animal testing in New Hampshire.
TEXT> These students would have been very articulate if they had never gone to youth of government. But I would just like to say that because it really is student driven.  It it creates a  presence and a voice that I, you know, that that they don't otherwise get a lot of chance to, to work on. So you guys are very articulate, and we're proud of you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah. Well.

[9073-343] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Well.
TEXT> What is it? One of the handicaps that  a lot of our community members have is that they don't really get a chance to see, to listen, interact with our students. And these three Stevens High School students are just one indicator  of the students, the the young adults that represent the Claremont community. So I just want I, I'm sitting here feeling so proud as if I was your.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Parent.

[9073-353] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Ticking.
TEXT> And a presentation following. There was a lavender two sided piece of paper in your in front of you. And I just wanted you to understand that the New Hampshire State House and its meeting meaning today host a contest  for 20 1617  is now drawing to to a closure. And you can see there's a calendar  of of the timeline. But I did want to compliment what Mary Leavitt said. We have two students  in the Claremont School District who, are moving on. And due to their accomplishment with the  poster contest. Marion was talking about Tyler Sullivan.  A student at Stevens High School. And we also have a Claremont Middle School student, Samantha Pratt. So I'm very, very pleased to publicly congratulate Tyler Sullivan and Samantha Pratt for their accomplishment as as they move forward. As you can see to the next level. And who knows,  we may have student representation  in the state legislative office building and the tunnel between the state House and the state legislative office building in the near future. But regardless, their accomplishment is just another example and represents  our community in the Claremont School District. And I also want to give my thanks to Christine Downing and Kim Goggin,  who facilitated and assisted our students to participate. And I will share with you that there were many, many students from different communities competing, if you will, for this honor. And it's wonderful that two of ours are part of this mix.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Is there any way, after the judging is done, that we could maybe see what they the work that they. Did if they're comfortable sharing?

[9073-451] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Oh, no. I'm finished. Josh, I got nothing else, buddy.
TEXT> So, I want to start with the mission because I like to start with missions. And looking at the mission here for technology, was that it? Be student student focused,  customer oriented, and serving a diverse and technologically focused world or preparing people for that? And those are the things that I highlighted out of the mission. Of course, there's much more there to it, but I really wanted to focus in on student focused, customer oriented, and that that aspect of a diverse and technologically focused world. When I came here, I really wanted to learn more. I really appreciated the board's questions about where have we been, where are we today, and where are we going? So I just started looking at Claremont, and I figured 1700s was a good place to get started.  So, I quickly went through I talked to Colin at the at the Fisk Free Library. He filled me in on all kinds of information. I dug through the Dow, found out all of these materials that I'm sharing with you here. Some of them date back to the 1800s. Some really interesting materials. These are just copies. There are other ones that are there. They're still safe. They've already been collected and put safely into storage.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: But I learned a lot about Claremont in general. Claremont, including the, the Stevens High School, how that came to be. I learned about Perrin Stevens. I learned about how

[9073-458] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Josh Malloy: Now, if you look up here, you'll see blue that's manufacturing. This is what is the primary employment. So if you're looking at a state, what's the primary employment in that state. The red is retail trade and yellow is health care and social assistance.
TEXT> So you can see as this progresses how what people are doing,  just changes over the years. And again, this is where we've been. I'm still in the where we've been category. But I found this interesting because certainly part of what we're doing is we're preparing our kids for what they're going to be doing later on. We talk about a little bit with manufacturing. So manufacturing, I don't know if any of you have heard, but, there's more to it than just jobs are going overseas or some of this other stuff is happening. Because really, when you look at our output and you look at employment productivity, is that top line. That means how much we're actually producing based on how many people are actually employed to produce that stuff. That's manufacturing I want to look at today. Where are we now? So we talk about retail because retail was a big thing in the state, is still a big thing in the state of New Hampshire. 2017. Has anybody heard of any of these stores that are closing down? This is in retail, another sector.  I want to talk a little bit about what's going on.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: If they're not if these jobs are not all going overseas, what's happening? Why are we seeing less people employed? But we're still seeing a crazy amount of stuff being

[9073-466] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Josh Malloy: over again. And I'm going to get to why I'm saying that over and over and over again. So I've done a lot of research. And one of the things I researched was, I don't know if you guys knew, but we have a technology.
TEXT> We had a technology plan. The technology plan expired in 2016. It had a very specific action plan, but that's now done. So we're now we're flying without an action plan. We're flying without a technology plan. There's, there's a tool out there called Future Ready Schools, and we've already taken the pledge to be a part of this future ready schools. And this is really getting our kids into those Stem things, getting our kids ready for the jobs that are going to be there tomorrow. We're in good company. These are all the other school districts in New Hampshire that have taken that pledge. And the next step is actually acting on it. These are the different steps that are involved. The first step is creating that that planning team. And then taking an assessment is step two, taking that information, analyzing where you have some gaps, analyzing your strengths. Where are you strong? Where where are the places that you'd like to work on creating that plan? And then just keep working on it and working on it. It's not. You do it once and it's done.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: You just you keep on working on it. You keep on collaborating, you keep keep on sharing. You keep on creating those connections. So the reason I keep saying collaboration

[9073-468] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Josh Malloy: there as well. So I would love to invite school board member, you're over here, someone from the school board to come and join us. And be a part of this so that you are involved in the planning process and you know what's happening.
TEXT> So it's not you're trying to figure out what's going on.  You're part of the process. You know what's going to happen. You know what we're focusing on, so that we can maintain that focus on the student so that we can maintain that customer oriented focus. And we're preparing our kids for that diverse and technologically focused world. So what? So what's the plan? And I'm still on the technology piece. So the plan is collaborate with stakeholders to develop that plan, establishing consistency and transparency. So I want you to know what you're spending your money on. And I want you to know why we're spending that money. And I want to make sure that technology is integrated into our business. It's integrated into our curriculum. It isn't just an extra that you're you're buying. Because one of the other things I read in reading through all these, these these things that I've seen throughout, throughout the past, is that technology was often an afterthought or technology was and it's in those bigger ones is the one that I'm talking about. Now, a little more recent is that technology, in a lot of cases were put on as a warrant article, or they were put on as an afterthought, or they weren't included in a budget.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: And as we start integrating some of these tools, I just want to express that it is very difficult, to maintain momentum if that spending isn't consistent, if I have

[9073-469] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Josh Malloy: those bigger ones is the one that I'm talking about. Now, a little more recent is that technology, in a lot of cases were put on as a warrant article, or they were put on as an afterthought, or they weren't included in a budget.
TEXT> And as we start integrating some of these tools, I just want to express that it is very difficult, to maintain momentum if that spending isn't consistent, if I have to worry about whether I can bring in contracted services or not next year, that's going to make things very difficult. If I don't know if we're going to be able to buy devices, that's going to make it very difficult. So I want to make sure it's clear to the board, it's clear to the community what we're spending the money on and why it's so important. So curriculum professional development needs to be integrated. We need to be using the technology to actually improve our student education. And that's where I want our plan to focus is  I want our technology evaluation not to be. How many computers did you buy last year or how many gigabits per second are you able to push through your your pipes? All of that's important. We have people for that. They're very good at it. What I want us to focus on is how are we using technology to make the lives of our students better? How are we using technology to support all these different things  that this is just?
NEXT> Josh Malloy: The National School Boards Association says these are things that we think education should be about. How are we in technology supporting that? And that's what I want to be

[9073-470] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Josh Malloy: have people for that. They're very good at it. What I want us to focus on is how are we using technology to make the lives of our students better? How are we using technology to support all these different things that this is just?
TEXT> The National School Boards Association says these are things that we think education should be about. How are we in technology supporting that? And that's what I want to be assessed on. I don't we can talk about how many computers we have. We can talk about how many things are in classrooms. We can talk about all that stuff. And I have those graphs. I can show you those charts, you know, and I can show you all the different answers I got about what is education. But really what it comes down to is prioritizing and efficiently utilizing funding opportunities to support  our plan to support our students. So that's what I really wanted to talk about. Was that future ready program getting people involved? Not only the people here, but people in the community, business leaders, people in our schools, stuff like that. Because that's when I see when I read all this history, that's when things are really taken off. Okay.
NEXT> Unidentified: On the first, love.

[9073-472] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'I'm not defendi | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: On the first, love.
TEXT> Your presentation. One thing I would like to say, and I agree with you, for me, it's about how I want to know that we're using and how we're using it. One thing I was also thinking about would I'd like to see, I think is developing the curriculum. Part of that, is some of, you know what? I saw a lot of opportunities just for your presentation. The way you think about it, where there could be, you know, for some problem based learning relevant to Claremont, because you were looking at, statistics and data analysis math you were looking at you brought in history, you brought in  for me marketing. There was also, you know, we're talking about collaboration. I, we always I always hear a lot about Stem, and that's important to me as well.  But some of the skills that all students need to have,  you brought it up. Collaboration. And a big part. I'm going to speak as the English guy. Communication project based learning is. And  so there's a lot with that in English, with English skills, oral communication, expression.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: But that type of communicative thinking, it's I would love to see that when we're developing technology that would go beyond just thinking about in terms of the science and

[9073-480] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So infrastructure wise, we need. If you want me to just get into the tech wireless access points, we need more of them. Okay.  And, and part of that is it's the foundation. So, I see that we're going to be needing more equipment in our rooms. More, more tools to be able to personalize instruction. So if we really want to get into a targeted,  education where we are looking at where the kids are now, each of our kids really getting each of them to grow, we need to make sure that the tech isn't just going to not work. So if I can't get this thing to light up the screen to show you what I want to communicate to you, we need to make sure that it's easy for our teachers to be able to to use those tools. One is wireless access point. A lot of our older schools are built like bunkers.  And, you know, we we've you've made an investment in wireless access points. But from my perspective, we've got coverage. They're out there, but we don't necessarily have the density that we need to be able to support the number of devices.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Do they need to be in each room or could could they be in the halls?

[9073-500] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - not named on this recordi | 2017-05-03
PREV> Cory LeClair: in every unit, whether that be publishing or accessing information through digital means or whatever that might be. Every unit is required to have a technology component. What? Something that that I've been cognizant of, though, is I don't want to be the end result.
TEXT> I want technology to be the tool to get to a greater end result. And that's very different. It's we're not teaching technology for technology sake. We're teaching content. We're teaching children. Technology is a vehicle to to get there. And students need to know how to engage with technology. Because Josh mentioned, I mean, all of us around the room are using at least two forms of technology, probably tonight at least. And so how do we engage with it, advantageously to, to help our students maximize their learning and personalize their learning. And so we have our technology integrators. One of the things that we are in the process of, of creating and will be implementing prior to the end of the school year is is really establishing a base line. What is being used? Where is it being used? What are what are our staff's perceptions of technology within their classroom, within their use and then where we headed next? So I think to inform our next plan, we really need to know what is our current  reality, because we've done a lot of work in the last several years to put the hardware in place and the systems in place. And so now we need to shift our focus from not completely away from just the hardware and the systems, but to okay, so so now what what are we doing with it and how are we moving it forward?
NEXT> Chris Irish: I think that was one of the things I know we talked about, we were looking for is we get into the budget processes, exactly what we've done in the

[9073-508] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides: calls to order, runs agenda, c | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: If I'm correct.
TEXT> I think I think a lot of people want to make sure that, you know, that our students are getting  and teachers are getting good use out of it. We want to make sure that, you know, being exposed to it is one thing. There's a lot of exposure to technology at home for a lot of these kids. We want to make sure that that it's the teachers are able to engage their their students with this technology. And, you know.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Yeah, well, I think there's.

[9073-517] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: That's the.
TEXT> One I can answer right now. Okay. It's a very simple question right now. My network administrator told me about 60% of our,  of our work orders are related to wireless access issues. So that's an easy one to answer. To go beyond that is more about what you were saying. What do our kids need? I can I can say, yeah, we could use some more of these or, you know, some more of those gizmos, but, what is it really that our kids need to succeed? And that's where tying it into the curriculum, tying it in professional development, making sure our people have the training they need and building this new plant, this future ready plan really helps us to talk about what is it that our teachers need and, you know, making sure that the teachers have the tools they need. So it's not like here, here's.
NEXT> Unidentified: Here's this piece.

[9073-519] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Here's this piece.
TEXT> Of. Technology I want you to start making that make the kids smart. So it's more about how do we support our teachers and how do we make sure the kids are still getting that collaboration, the the soft skills that they need to be able to work with people? You know, I saw this terrible thing where some kids are having trouble recognizing facial, you know, expressions.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Very common.

[9073-521] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by the superin | 2017-05-03
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Very common.
TEXT> They've come up with an app to teach kids how to recognize facial expressions. And I love technology, but to me, like, maybe that's not the best anyway. So it's important to understand,  you know, that balance. Like you said, it just makes sure you have that balance, know what you need and what's best for the kids. So, you know, I would love for my kids. When I was growing up, I was an honor student and had a backpack that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Was.

[9073-640] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [162, 166]; c | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I have a question for you. What does if June 6th. Tuesday.
TEXT> Well, let me ask you this before we ask, before you answer that. Well, I was going to bring up what what the possibility is or what the expectation of the board's role will be this year in graduation. And I think senior night. And like where I'm going with that is I would like to see the board be more involved in both those nights, especially graduation. If you have an opportunity to be up on that stage, especially when there's a lot of kids that we know coming across. It is. It's a honestly, for me, it reminded me of why I'm here in the first place. When you when you're up there and the kids come across the stage and so are we going to be able to have the if there, if we show up, if the board being up there on stage when we when they come up.
NEXT> Unidentified: Their chairs.

[9073-677] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Five.
TEXT> And these five early release days. These five early release days and the PD days are investing in our most important asset as far as the adults are concerned, which are the skills and quality of our teaching. And so that's the focus. And that has a direct residual impact and benefit for our students. So I do know that every released days and professional development days during the year can be difficult for parents. My hope is that giving them a half a year plus notice, those adjustments can be made. I respectfully ask you to accept this calendar. And so we can release it to the community. Parents have been asking, can we see the calendar? We want to make plans for next year.  So, this has been vetted, and it's really a result of the collaborative work of our of our dedicated teachers and administration.
NEXT> Unidentified: I was just saying to share with you a big word.

[9073-703] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - not named on this recordi | 2017-05-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Would you contracts go out for staff?
TEXT> Most of them are out already. There are three groups that were being finalized. This week.  And so, there,  there. We're waiting to hear back. The  you and letter of agreement staff there. Those contracts should be going out at the end of this week, beginning of next week. Paraprofessionals is the only other group. They were waiting on a call back from the para leadership. And then those are ready to go. Once they heard some, they were just seeking some clarification on a few different points. So those I expect not to speak on behalf of the HR department, but in my conversations with them in the last 24 hours, I expect that all contracts will be out by the beginning of next week.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[9098-17] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-05-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Accept a second.
TEXT> Thank you. Any  comments? Questions? Concerns? All in favor? Aye, aye. Opposed? Perfect. We have our student representative report.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: So, from Stevens High School, we would like to invite the school board to. Lest we forget, the Art of commemoration exhibit opening at Saint-Gaudens on May 19th, 436. This

[9098-22] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: All right. Thank you. Any questions? Comments. Thanks a lot for that. Superintendents report.
TEXT> Thank you. And good evening. Referring to  Mike packet within the school board's packet.  If you look at the third topic, the student events, it's,  Marianne spoke to some of these. It's really quite remarkable the the number of activities and programs going on.  From  earlier  this past week, right through until the last day of school. I would like to just make one comment, though. I'd like to thank Pat Patrick, Adrian and Michelle Pierce, who  volunteered representing the school board  at the Stevens High School Prom grand march that took place Saturday, May, May 13th. I will tell you, it is remarkable how wonderful our students are presented themselves and their appearance. It's just remarkable. And Marion Lovett was was one of  the Stevens High School students. Just just phenomenal.  Great, great representation of the community. They do us proud. They do as proud.  Also, as you can see. There are several  performances. What you don't. Performances, activities  in all the elementary schools. Our middle school and our high school. It would have taken four pages to list all the athletic events that are  going on.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But these student events represent what they call the three days the academics, the arts and the athletics. And and clearly, there's a great deal in our elementary school, our

[9098-23] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: do as proud. Also, as you can see. There are several performances. What you don't. Performances, activities in all the elementary schools. Our middle school and our high school. It would have taken four pages to list all the athletic events that are going on.
TEXT> But  these student events represent what they call the three days the academics, the arts and the athletics. And and clearly, there's a great deal in our elementary school, our middle school, as well as our high school to be proud of, as measured by our students and what they're accomplishing. Also, you'll note that,  last week we had  the Abbey group do a tour of our schools. And they will be in the early June, a school board meeting, making a presentation as we move forward to make a decision regarding  food service for the 2017 2018 school year. Because of the amount of information on on the agenda.  I my hope is that you did have the opportunity to review the  meeting, the needs of all students, especially the adverse childhood experience. And I hope you had a chance also to to,  to look at  the video to at least have a greater awareness. This is a very, very important topic that we need to have in preparation for preparing the budget, as well as  have publicly as well as privately and not public. So the board is aware  of, of this particular issue.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It. And so I look forward I look forward to that discussion with you. But this I want to share with you is not a New Hampshire dilemma. This is

[9098-27] Unidentified | Robotics club (Rogue Robotics) adult mentor, parent of a team member;  | 2017-05-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: The C purge team is here this evening representing, a group of young men and young ladies who in two days are going to be going to Georgia, at a national competition at Georgia Tech. And welcome and congratulations.
TEXT> Good evening, and thank you for giving us an opportunity to share with you before the team shares about the competition. I'd like to take a couple of moments to tell you about our club and about the history of how Sea Perch came to be. We are a after school competition and project based Stem club. We have a mostly middle school club that comes after school and in the fall we have the first Lego League competition that students can participate in. And in the spring we have sea perch. We have several other projects that are non-competition based for these students throughout our school year program. We have about 18  middle schoolers and a few elementary school students come after school. We also have a high school competition team. They compete with Vex robots. They design, build, and program robots that they compete against other teams in our area, and we presently have eight students. These guys do the Vex and the sea perch.  We the beginnings of sea perch happened many, many years ago in a little book that was titled How to Build an Underwater Robot. Several years after it was published, an MIT professor found one of the projects, the one which we now call Seahawk, and he began to use it to get interest in the engineering program at MIT.
NEXT> Unidentified: Many years after that, another professor saw how well the program was doing and wanted to use it to teach teachers how to teach engineering, and he was able to

[9098-69] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: And you want it to go with childhood experiences first.
TEXT> If I could, please, I hope you had the opportunity to review the information in my report. This information was developed by drawing from different sources, also in partnership with TLC,  and working  on the community Focus.  It's been very clear to me over the past six years, that we have a small number of children who have very important and specific needs. And these needs are such that we are being challenged to to work with them effectively. We try different strategies, different approaches. Some are successful, some are not. But but what we've realized is that the intensity seems to be increasing over time.  And, and if you did have the opportunity to review this strong graded relationships between the level of trauma, traumatic stress in childhood and poor physical, mental and behavioral outcomes later in life, let alone during the child's education,  are  major, major concerns. And so, after my six years and working with the elementary, middle and high school faculty and administration, it's time to talk about this publicly.  We're not talking about Claremont. We're talking about a national concern. And I'm not saying that we had the solution and we're going to fix the world, but I am saying if it's not going as well as you'd like or if you have challenges, you can turn your back on it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: You can make excuses and point fingers and blame, or you can say, so how can we address this more effectively? And so that's what this is about tonight as

[9098-74] Melanie Williams | Clinical supervisor, TLC Family Resource Center (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-17
PREV> Melanie Williams: to listen in school if that's what you're doing, what you're experiencing at home. Right. So what can we do so we can be informed? You all have access to information about Aces. So you can read about that and you can know about them.
TEXT> And we can spread that information to the community as well, because it shouldn't just be professionals who know about it. It should be everyone. Because if knowledge is power, right, if we know these things exist, then maybe we can prevent them together and have a stronger community so we can create a safe community. I think Claremont has a lot of good things going for it, and there are it's a pretty safe place to be. I think all of you would agree. You know, we have our issues, but there's some strengths here too, so we can build upon those strengths. That's one thing we can continue educating.  We have institutions here who are trauma informed. How many people have been to trauma informed trainings?  Oh, not a lot. Okay, so we'll keep going. Yeah. Corey has I've seen her in it. But so trauma informed that NC S.N. which is the National Childhood Traumatic stress network says that trauma informed is all parties recognize and respond to the impact of traumatic stress on those who have contact with the system, including the children, the caregivers and the service providers. So everyone's impacted, even teachers, right? Even me. It's hard to go into a home and see these things and not be able to fix it as well as I'd like, but to help people move along the path as what I'm doing.
NEXT> Melanie Williams: So what can you do? We can keep talking. We'll show the movie again. And you can refer to TLC because there are trauma informed systems. The school is coming

[9098-75] Melanie Williams | Clinical supervisor, TLC Family Resource Center (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-17
PREV> Melanie Williams: service providers. So everyone's impacted, even teachers, right? Even me. It's hard to go into a home and see these things and not be able to fix it as well as I'd like, but to help people move along the path as what I'm doing.
TEXT> So what can you do? We can keep talking. We'll show the movie again. And you can refer to TLC because there are trauma informed systems. The school is coming on board. We were at that training with Cassie, and I know that you guys are getting that information out, not just to administrators, but to teachers and to pair us and people who are directly serving these kids so that they can understand trauma and how it impacts a child's day, right, how it impacts their heart and how it impacts their behavior. And some of the behaviors are challenging. If you don't feel safe, you're going to behave in a certain way, right? So we need to help kids feel safe. And that's easier said than done. We can help. You can refer to TLC. You can say, hey, there are some people here who could help. We can go into their homes and and help put some resources in place that can support the family and maybe reduce some of those traumas or stressors that are occurring. We can connect them to West Central, who is. They are trauma informed as well. They know about trauma and can help kids recover from trauma.  Even preschools in our area, there was an initiative called Trauma Informed Early Childhood Services, and even preschool providers were trained in recognizing trauma and how it impacts children and their learning and their brain development.
NEXT> Melanie Williams: And so we're doing well as a community. We can continue going and continue teaching people about trauma, but we're already on the path, which is good news. Yeah, I

[9098-76] Melanie Williams | Clinical supervisor, TLC Family Resource Center (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-17
PREV> Melanie Williams: about trauma and can help kids recover from trauma. Even preschools in our area, there was an initiative called Trauma Informed Early Childhood Services, and even preschool providers were trained in recognizing trauma and how it impacts children and their learning and their brain development.
TEXT> And so we're doing well as a community. We can continue going and continue teaching people about trauma, but we're already on the path, which is good news. Yeah, I think I think we we can keep going. And and this is a discussion, I could tell you lots and lots about trauma and about how it affects the the growing brain and how it affects children's behaviors and their relationships. But there's hope, you know, that's the other thing. So the the movie is really difficult to watch at first because you're getting all this information about how many people are affected by trauma and, and adverse childhood experiences, but then it goes into the science of hope. And one person who understands and believes in a child and listens to them can change their path. Right? If you guys all think right now about one person in your life who understands and listens to you and believes in you, hopefully everyone has that and you can be that for some of these kids and we can help their parents be that because we're in the home and we're talking to their parents about what they've been through and how it impacts their parenting.
NEXT> Melanie Williams: So my message is we all have to work together. I have a lot more information I could talk to you about. I know there's not a ton of time,

[9098-78] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Melanie Williams: more information I could talk to you about. I know there's not a ton of time, so I won't take a lot of your time tonight, but I'm happy to come back whenever and share what I know, and I appreciate you listening. Any questions?
TEXT> Yeah. I just. Want to tell you. Thank you for coming, and I  this is a topic that I feel very strongly about. So I'm glad that our school district is actually starting to discuss it out in the open. And I  and I hope that we keep on talking about it and we keep on making changes and we keep on  doing what's best for kids and teachers and other students because it affects everybody. Exactly. And I just wanted to say your point about how trauma affects the brain,  is probably one of the best things I've ever heard anybody say because,  I think it's important for people to know about chemicals, serotonin,  oxytocin, all those things so that they can better understand that sometimes kids can't even control,  what's what's emanating from them. So I could talk to you for probably hours and hours and hours. But I just want to say I'm stoked that this is a conversation that's going to be happening, happening, and hopefully a lot more frequently.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Not going to be is happening. Yes, I think that's an important distinction.

[9098-88] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Chris Irish: fear, and at least to a lot of other issues as you grow up as an adult, untreated. And so I think that's the message is you have to reach out for help. And if you see something, don't walk past it. Stop it. Help!
TEXT> Exactly. We've been able to do a community film series, and I think that our timing has been a little off because there's conflicts with, you know, baseball and other things this time of year. But,  we showed Paper Tigers and resilience. The TLC showed resilience. We showed Paper Tigers. They're done by the same filmmakers. They're on the a similar topic. And then we last night showed  a film called The Masculine. And all three of these things are connected.  And you'll see actually the same experts in the different films.  But the idea of what you were just speaking to these issues don't go away. Just as we get bigger, they just transform and get potentially more dangerous and more impactful and more debilitating. And so how do we intervene with our children when they're younger to help them have better outcomes later in life? And so all of these,  we have access to regularly so we can do additional screenings and things of that nature.  Probably in the winter months when people are less busy and looking for things to do.  We have one more coming up. Not quite as related to the three, just because, you know, I think it's completely different filmmakers. But, really, on the opioid epidemic and how a local Vermont doctor has addressed that. And so,  that's real to us. Right?
NEXT> Chris Irish: There's a good chance they're connected.

[9098-102] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Cory LeClair: coming out in the next couple of months for those schools who don't have an SS system in place. We already have it written from the first time. It's a good opportunity for us to just, you know, resubmit to the the next funding opportunity.
TEXT> But that's an area that I am keenly focused on based on, some other discussions we're going to be having shortly in the needs of our students that were that we're seeing and knowing what resources are available to help them, and knowing there's not enough resource right now to help all of the kids who need it. So we are looking for,  alternate funding sources to get the resources we need. And not necessarily just money, but also the the staff to be able to do that. Because money is one thing. But if you don't have a, you know, clinical mental health counselor, then you're kind of out of luck.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Your answer raised another concern with me in that we're going to train our existing personnel to do it.

[9098-105] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Cory LeClair: is for a social worker, wraparound facilitator. There is somebody from TLC and West Central and a few other organizations who are sitting on that leadership committee for that project. And so that's a step in the right direction. But we we need more veteran..
TEXT> At some point, I'd like to get some some kind of clinical feedback. Speaking to this, what Corey was just talking about. I think one of my, I guess, one of my  ongoing concerns or just  not concerns for us is, in as we're trying is schools are trying to kind of provide this, you know, the environment in district and we mentioned environment and. I guess I'm trying to wonder whether, you know, I think of kind of environment, the kind of environment for a lot of these students that I've seen, it's it's a school that the environment has a very strong therapeutic component and not just like providing therapeutic services, but the entire school kind of it's the its mission philosophy, the even the academics, the it's all designed with a certain type of,  of to create the kind of environment the students need. And it can be academic, but, it's very it's different from what I've experienced in our schools and in neighboring schools where there's like this part of the building or there's where there's devoted. But when the students leave, it's not there, because the reality is it's our schools are academic driven. And sometimes they they, they're there can be conflict.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So I guess that's kind of an ongoing concern challenge that I see. And and again, this doesn't speak to all students and I mean some, but there are some

[9098-106] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patrick Adrian: schools and in neighboring schools where there's like this part of the building or there's where there's devoted. But when the students leave, it's not there, because the reality is it's our schools are academic driven. And sometimes they they, they're there can be conflict.
TEXT> So I guess that's kind of an ongoing concern challenge that I see. And and again, this doesn't speak to all students and I mean some, but there are some students that we've typically sent out some of these other these outside district, these out of district schools. The problem is are really expensive. But sometimes they're better for those students. And how we're going to address that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Michelle.

[9098-121] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks, doctor.
TEXT> Just before we moved on to the next piece, is there any way we. If we can get this onto the agenda for the joint to the city and board? Because I think what Chris was talking about that that struck a chord with me about the, the support group. And I know, I guess I feel that we need to have we need to be doing more beyond the hours with schools can do. And I know that, you know, I kind of with some of these students, I got the kids, I got involved, I met Robin Woodman. She was kind of running a for age group and started calling, you know? You know, I started volunteering there and,  you know, tribe because of mentor, kind of like tutor, you know, spending time with, like, certain certain of the kids. And, you know, it was realized, you know, I don't know, we don't like we don't have like a big brother or I've asked about it, but. Just look at like, you know, I see in Vermont now, they, they have like the Vermont Family Institute where they're, they're bringing these the  nonprofits where they have these kind of counselors that kind of pick kids up after school, and they're working with them after school. They also have like some of these kind of, mentors, kind of adolescent groups.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And it just seems like that there's a big difference between our states in terms of resources and funding, but just try and see what we can do beyond that,

[9098-131] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Chris: pretty successful working with, the various schools, with the high school, with the middle school to bring some of these kiddos back in here because we've had the the right conditions in which to do that, one being the Alt program at the high school.
TEXT> So we've been successful to bring some kids back from into that program. So I think we're starting to see in the drop in the numbers here in terms of the is because of some of these other things that we're being able to offer students here. That being said, we have some significant concerns going forward here. We've talked we're talking a lot about behavior. We're talking about, our real concern right now seems to be at the young elementary level. And,  we have a  special ed leadership group that meets  a few times a year.  The last time we met,  we had talked about all of our identified kids in the school district. So we, we, we have about 2000 kids total in Claremont. Just rough numbers. We have about 25% that are identified special education students. And so we kept drilling into that. So that's 400 about 400 kids, give or take, of those 400 kids. We conservatively estimated that about 150, 200 of those kids were experiencing some sort of trauma, along with an educational disability and to varying degrees on that trauma being treated.
NEXT> Unidentified: And we.

[9098-134] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Chris: run into several situations this year where we've got between 5 and 7 kids right now. Who would we consider to be extremely at risk students who would benefit from and out of district placement? Because we don't have the capacity to deal with what?
TEXT> And we're not talking about education because what we're talking about here is containment versus education. And so for a lot of these students, we're we're containing them, but we're not we're not educating them. And and when you get into that arena and, these kiddos have some much more significant needs than we're able to do and our schools have done, they have gone  above and beyond and dealing with  these, these behaviors and these. Families and, you know, these kids and and we are very, very it is a,  sending a student out of district placement is not something that happens in isolation. Everybody is involved, the cabinet, everybody is aware IEP teams, families, we,  we we take this very, very seriously about kids going out and we try to bring them back. But I don't want to get lost in the numbers here because our numbers are down to 2.1. But I'm,  I'm I'm very fearful for what's coming. Very, very fearful. Unless we seriously look at what our landscape is.  We have some significant mental health needs here that need to be addressed for these kids who are extremely high risk. The other thing I want to mention, too, is part of this is that we spend a lot of time looking at,
NEXT> Chris: Are our kids. We have a lot of kids who move in and they move out, move ins, move out, and and a lot of questions. We sit around the

[9098-135] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Chris: landscape is. We have some significant mental health needs here that need to be addressed for these kids who are extremely high risk. The other thing I want to mention, too, is part of this is that we spend a lot of time looking at,
TEXT> Are our kids. We have a lot of kids who move in and they move out, move ins, move out, and and a lot of questions. We sit around the table and discuss a lot of time is ultimately because these kids will go from Manchester to,  you know, Pelham to,  you know, Henniker, and then they'll end up in Claremont. And a lot of times it's who ultimately is the district of liability, who's the sending school, who has the responsibility for,  being the fiscal,  who what school district is, is the one that has the fiscal responsibility for for paying for these kiddos. And, and so we have spent a lot of focus this year on when we do get these movements, we look at them very, very critically in terms of where they have come from, where their parents have been. And if we have any sort of concern about where they're coming from, we will engage with our  attorney from Drummond and Woodson and I and I, and that it takes a lot of time and research to sort of go into these,  specific cases. And it is important to note here that Claremont did have just have a recent we had a big win and and it, it sort of revolved around a district of liability case in which one district was saying, no, it's you, Claremont, you're the district of liability.
NEXT> Chris: And we were pushing back saying, no, it's you. You're the district of liability. So you have there are a lot of RSA, there are a lot of state laws

[9098-136] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Chris: important to note here that Claremont did have just have a recent we had a big win and and it, it sort of revolved around a district of liability case in which one district was saying, no, it's you, Claremont, you're the district of liability.
TEXT> And we were pushing back saying, no, it's you. You're the district of liability. So you have there are a lot of RSA, there are a lot of state laws that are in, in play here that have never been challenged in court. So one district's interpretation of who the district of liability is can be completely different from what another district says, because there's so much gray area in the law around who who is the district of liability. So we have been challenging some of these things. And, we just had a pretty significant win from what I understand is going to be  something that is talked about a lot in law conferences now, and it had to do with a the kid who was already in and out of district placement at a tune of one $120,000 a year. So it's that kind of critical looking at  who are the kids who are moving and moving out being very critical, but who are the kids that we have here now and prevention and preventing them from going out. So if we're going to seriously look at restructuring to prevent some of these kiddos from going out,  we're going to need some significant mental health support in the school districts, boots on the ground to  sort of set that up and how we get there, I'm not sure.
NEXT> Chris: But that's that's part of why we're having this, this discussion. And the other thing is we have recently met with Newport. Newport is also experiencing the same thing at

[9098-140] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you. Chris.  If I may,  I would like to spend a few minutes in nonpublic  with our building principals. It would be inappropriate for a building principal to discuss a matter about their school. Because of the size of the community, we're not going to be talking about children's names with you. We want to bring you into the world of our teachers and administrators. So you have this sensitivity about the seriousness of this,  and also the direction that we anticipate heading in the near future through the budget process,  through future discussions. So with your approval,  if we could go into nonpublic.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[9098-163] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: We have.
TEXT> We have that window. The younger they can learn some coping strategies, the better. And thing is, a lot of these kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's.

[9098-231] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Josh Malloy: spread over that six year period. And that just, you know, where are we now with technology? So a lot of that money went into laptops, desktops, projectors, interactive whiteboards, networking, predominantly wireless Chromebooks, servers, security phones, fiber and Wan build outs for the schools.
TEXT> So broadband,  you can tell a lot of work has been put in and that's where a lot of it went to. So if we look right now, when you look at that yearly cost that we're looking at, that's to sustain a program where we have 900 laptops, 900, well, 900 laptops, desktops and servers all together, and 625 Chromebooks. Which means essentially we have 1 to 1 for our teachers. So each teacher has a laptop, we have 1 to 1 for admin. So each of our admin have a laptop or desktop. Technically, I think there might be a couple teachers and still have desktops.  It doesn't mean that we're 1 to 1 with our students. So we have one device for many students, one device for many staff. So we have a lot of carts in our in our buildings. So that's if you go around our buildings you'll see a lot of carts. We've invested a lot in short throw projectors and interactive whiteboards. So you'll see that in a lot of classrooms, if you go and you to the classrooms, you'll see that equipment there. We've invested a lot in network wireless access points. And if you look this is kind of highlighting. So we've got access points deployed but they aren't deployed in each classroom.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Jessica, can I go back to you don't have to go back, but just curiosity. Why are you doing what? Not you. Because I know it was before you started.

[9098-237] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Josh Malloy: and so far, no knows yet. So, that may change, but I think that's interesting. I kind of brought up last time how manufacturing, retail, and even healthcare is looking at integrating technology into what they do and the reasons why are these same reasons.
TEXT> They're looking to decrease costs. We're looking to increase proficiency, increase quality, decrease routine tasks, increase safety and increase competitiveness. I think those same things could apply to education. And I know other school districts are using technology in that way to do the same things. Finally, I think with this, I just I want to say, I don't know that that's exactly the right answer. So how can we justify continuing to spend money on technology? I think the better answer is what do we need to to really do personalized student learning? What is it that we need to to achieve the outcomes that we're looking for? If it's if it's buying again, if it's just buying technology, like I have a bunch of tools, I don't buy those tools to just leave them on a shelf. I buy them with purpose. So I buy a drill because I want to create holes.  If we're buying technology, purposely driven, if we have a strategic plan and we're supporting that strategic plan, you use the money effectively.  Are we getting a good return on the investment? I thought you'd never ask. I wrote an article about this last year.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: Feel free to read it. I'll go into all kinds of detail. But one of the conversations I had in there is return on investment comes from the business world

[9098-238] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Josh Malloy: If we're buying technology, purposely driven, if we have a strategic plan and we're supporting that strategic plan, you use the money effectively. Are we getting a good return on the investment? I thought you'd never ask. I wrote an article about this last year.
TEXT> Feel free to read it. I'll go into all kinds of detail.  But one of the conversations I had in there is return on investment comes from the business world  ROI. And there are situations where that works for us. I love those situations because I go to Mike and I say, hey, in a year this is going to pay for itself and we don't have to worry about that bill anymore. It's a real easy sell. I love when I can use ROI and it's very easy to calculate.  I love the formula. Piece of cake voice. Because we're a service, we provide a service. We we help our students learn. V is is another measure and value of investment is really you're looking at  your strategic plan. You're trying to figure out what it is that you want to support. And you're you're assessing things that you've purchased and the things that you're deploying to the kids to determine the value. So it's really about establishing measures. It's about establishing key performance indicators and saying, is this tool that we are paying for because again, this is a service. So chances are you're continuing to pay for it or or not.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: So you might look at the value that it's offering based on how much you're paying for it. And you may say, well this is doing okay, but we've got

[9098-239] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Josh Malloy: kids to determine the value. So it's really about establishing measures. It's about establishing key performance indicators and saying, is this tool that we are paying for because again, this is a service. So chances are you're continuing to pay for it or or not.
TEXT> So you might look at the value that it's offering based on how much you're paying for it. And you may say, well this is doing okay, but we've got another program over here that is doing phenomenally and is really making a difference in our students lives. Let's support that. So it's a it's a little bit more difficult because it involves a lot more people. And the formula is not as simple. It's a little bit more subjective.  And you need a lot more people involved to come up with that calculation.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just. Yeah.

[9098-246] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patrick Adrian: About, no, it's fine. I just didn't know if. I just want to make sure, like if you, you probably touch on it, but I just wanted to throw that in.
TEXT> So I'm kind of leading into it with where do we need to be? So, if you guys remember this one, I'm really focusing on that collaboration piece and that future ready piece. So I don't want to call this a tech plan because it's more it's more really in support of our strategic planning. It's really in support of what we're doing in education. And it's really figuring out how technology helps us to do the work that we're doing, whether it's in the business office or whether it's helping our kids to learn. It's how does technology support what we're doing?  And this is a tool that's been out there for a while. It's a whole process in how to come up with that, to collaborate together and to really establish what are we doing, making sure we're making smart decisions, making sure we're we're putting the wires in when we're doing our renovation. I know it's a touchy subject, but just, the outcomes for technology and staff. So I wanted to bring Charlie around to talk about this. If there are any more specific questions.  What I've seen personally is the onboarding here, and I've been really impressed with that. So a lot of school districts just kind of hire people and they throw them out there and say, hey, good luck.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: Maybe they get a mentor and they're working with the mentor, but we actually have a really good a really good onboarding program here, and they're working to get better.

[9098-254] Charlie Gessner | Technology integrationist, SAU 6 (ASR 'Charlie Gessner', spelling unve | 2017-05-17
PREV> Charlie Gessner: six, again with the digital citizenship component as well. So you have at grade six, it's pretty much Google Docs. Grade seven is pretty much Google presentations. Grade eight is pretty much Google Spreadsheets or we're also Paul is now also getting into more coding.
TEXT> So what we're trying to do is build upon what we did with the our code the first couple of years, do more with Code.org. And now what's happening is students are also coming in as part of that 22 day curriculum at CMS. And they are programing using Spiro Sphero, Programable ball units.  And the kids absolutely love that they come to the high school next year. The entire curriculum is being revamped. When students used to come to the high school for their,  technology credit, there was one entry path and that was predominantly through ICT. Next year that's changing. So next year students will have the option when they're coming in from Claremont Middle School to take either Intro to Career Readiness, which basically is more geared towards the student that's looking to do office types of skills with products like either Google Drive or Microsoft Office, resume building all those types of skills we are also going to have as a pathway in  Intro to Digital Arts. So this is more centered around creating  letters, newsletters,  advertisements,  anything that's more graphically involved with products like Adobe. So we're using predominantly Adobe Photoshop there. And we've also used Adobe Dreamweaver in the past. We're kind of pulling back from that. Adobe Fireworks is another one. And we've also used in design for desktop publishing. So we have that and we're hoping to build upon that.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: We're trying to just get that off the ground and get that going. One of the limitations that we obviously have, right, are our resources. Right now at the high

[9098-257] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patrick Adrian: glad you did. Are we kind of do we have anything right now where we were we kind of or our. Use kind of, I guess, kind of enhancing collaborative learning through the technology, or is that something we're kind of working on to develop?
TEXT> Fortunately, G suite has been very, very helpful in doing that. So  we're already doing it. I think we need to do more of it.  I just heard a story today about kids that were doing blogs on their own, so video kind of blogging, but with videos instead. And you know how they handled that over at the middle school when they found out that was happening, I thought was really good. You know, that there's certain rules that we have to follow, certain legalities that we have to do, but they were very supportive of it. And how can we how can we integrate this? How can we do this and make this a positive thing for the kids?  Anytime, anytime. We're using technology to to help the kids to create, to help the kids to learn, to help the kids to,  you know, to to get involved, I think is a positive thing. And of course, we've got to be safe. We've got to make sure the kids are safe and we've got to make sure things are going on. So  we're already having conversations about safety and expanding on our digital citizenship and making sure that kids are doing this stuff safely. But yeah, I mean, collaboration is huge. So, you know, working together and getting things done, whether you're using technology to do it or your face to face or whatever it is you're doing is huge.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: So, yeah, we're already doing a lot with Google Classroom. I know there's a lot of.

[9098-267] Charlie Gessner | Technology integrationist, SAU 6 (ASR 'Charlie Gessner', spelling unve | 2017-05-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's.
TEXT> Two part question. I'm going to give you two answers. So on the student side, we're definitely seeing their skills have increased to the point where when Paul Petrescu is now getting students from grade five at any of the elementary schools, there are certain parts of his curriculum that he basically no longer has to teach, because those kids are now coming up with the skills. So the good news is that we're taking part of Paul's curriculum this summer, and we're actually pushing it down to grade five, and we're kind of revamping his curriculum at grade six, because we are adding Gmail to the middle school in the fall. So we'll be teaching that from a digital citizenship ship perspective, as well as just from an instructional standpoint. And it also opens up the doors for other products that we might be able to use that are free online, because with a lot of things is you probably know you have to have some type of, email confirmation. So if the students have that email address, we can use that for confirmation to open ourselves up for other free resources.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: So on the student side, definitely on the staff side, yes, we're seeing some things, but I'm going to I'm going to come back to one thing and that's the

[9098-268] Charlie Gessner | Technology integrationist, SAU 6 (ASR 'Charlie Gessner', spelling unve | 2017-05-17
PREV> Charlie Gessner: that are free online, because with a lot of things is you probably know you have to have some type of, email confirmation. So if the students have that email address, we can use that for confirmation to open ourselves up for other free resources.
TEXT> So on the student side, definitely on the staff side, yes, we're seeing some things, but I'm going to I'm going to come back to one thing and that's the staff turnover. It's like taking one step forward, two steps back sometimes. So I'll give you a great example. When I came up here three years ago, like in November of that, my first year on this job, one of the things that we wanted was we wanted teachers to have a website, and we wanted that website to be used as a communication tool not only for students, but for parents. And while a lot of staff do have that, when you lose the amount of staff that we have lost, it's like you've got to get everybody back on board again. So the onboarding process helps out a lot. We can offer workshops. I mean, we've done workshops basically. I mean, I don't know what else we can really offer them. We do them during school vacations. We already have released our summer schedule. We're doing days in early July. We're doing a full week in late July. I've already gone on record to staff and said, call me up. Email me if you want to come in during the summer, just do one on one stuff. Will do one on one after school. We do.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just want to be a devil's advocate too as well though, because I, I think about time in general. So when you talk about teachers being able to implement

[9098-277] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks guys.
TEXT> So I mentioned before a little bit. So, Charlie Mikami have been working really hard to go through every single classroom, talk to all of our educators and leading into that future ready program. So in future ready, they're really into collecting data, collecting information, and really getting a really good perspective on how technology is being used to help to help students learn. What's the expectation? I mean, basically it's use every resource you have available to personalized learning and make sure every kid is growing. I think that's just target, I think, move sometimes when we're talking about specific programs or specific platforms. But that's always it's it's basically use whatever we can. If there's a free program out there and it's sound and it works with our curriculum and it makes sense. We'll use it. Google's been such a, you know, a useful tool there. So thankful for that. Our students and teachers using technology. I think you kind of got that that. Yes. So I was so glad that Charlie could make it tonight to talk about this stuff. And I didn't put everything up here. This was just stuff that I could grab real quick at some of the things that were mentioned.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: But really that I ready, is a program where we're, we're getting that measure of how the kids are doing. So one thing that I keep hearing, even in my

[9098-278] Josh Malloy | SAU 6 technology director (named 'Josh Malloy' on record; roster title | 2017-05-17
PREV> Josh Malloy: got that that. Yes. So I was so glad that Charlie could make it tonight to talk about this stuff. And I didn't put everything up here. This was just stuff that I could grab real quick at some of the things that were mentioned.
TEXT> But really that I ready, is a program where we're, we're getting that measure of how the kids are doing. So one thing that I keep hearing, even in my short time here, is that people need more and they want to do more with the kids, with technology. And, you know, that's that's kind of where I'll leave that off. So that's it. Are there any other questions?
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Could we get some of the copy of the slides for later use some really good information on here. Yeah.

[9098-316] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patrick Adrian: But I know, but why so why 26? Like why do we have to have more credits in order to to the.
TEXT> Well, part of it is we know what the most competitive colleges are looking for. So that breakdown of credits, three years of a world language, four years of English, four years of science, three and a half social studies, etc. we know that matches up with what your more competitive colleges are looking for. I don't want to undersell the kids at Stevens. That student who comes in and knows or doesn't know until their senior year, maybe that they're able and want to go to an Ivy League school, to a Stanford, to a Dartmouth. I don't want them to go into their senior year and realize that they didn't take enough, do enough, have offered enough to have a transcript that's going to be competitive with a student anywhere else in the United States for those top colleges, if they follow that 27 credit diploma of distinction, they will. They'll come out of Stevens ready to compete with anybody. So that's and that 27 credit diploma is not for everybody, you know. But but students at least know that up front. They know what the the guide is. They know what the prize is. They know what has to happen in there. And then I think we do do a good job of saying, but  I don't emphasize GPA, you know, take band, take chorus, take theater, take art, don't take courses.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Don't sign up for stuff because it's weighted. Because you're looking for a magical number, because colleges less and less are really looking at that. They're less and less looking

[9098-320] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: That's enabling Steve to get into RTI.
TEXT> So just along those lines, because we we say it's approved, but it's hard to find proof. It just is. And I know a previous school board member who also happens to be my wife,  had mentioned at some point, and I think now is the perfect time to really start trying to figure out how to do it is reaching out the kids that are going through this round and then have already gone through it, reaching out to alumni that have gone on, were they ready? Were they really prepared? I mean, I can speak to to Ashley, who graduates in two days, and her experience here was great, but there were some things that could have been done a little bit better that I know we're working on, but it would be great if we could get a pool of kids who have gone on to college.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: We do that. We did it for two years in a row now, under the guise of having them come back and talk to the underclassmen, but then we're picking

[9098-322] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: We do that. We did it for two years in a row now, under the guise of having them come back and talk to the underclassmen, but then we're picking their brains and they're they're being very honest.
TEXT> It would be great to see this. I know that's that's been and I think that's important information. Absolutely. You know, and to me along those lines for our next meeting, it'd be great to know, you know, the kids that are graduating in the next few days and you know, where the alumni, where kids have gone in less than four years, where they're graduating to start, because that, to me is a success. Stories. And whether the proof is in the in the pudding. So it would be nice to start having that data. And I'll probably bug you about that again.
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely.

[9098-324] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Absolutely.
TEXT> Absolutely. Just a few more things, that I wanted to point out to you. We have now appendices at the back, and we have kind of a,  a graveyard, of courses. So the courses that aren't running this year because of low signups or courses that have not run, let's say, for the last two years or so, but we don't want to get rid of them because we, we, we may be able to resurrect them if there's enough student interest that comes up. There is a shelf life obviously, before they have to be revisited by the Curriculum Council. But so you have an appendices that articulates that, and then we have another appendix. Be an example, extended learning opportunities, two pages that give you different examples of what an ELO can look like, which is as we now increase our ellos, we're at around 20. You talk about Lebanon. Lebanon has a full time ELO coordinator and they are doing about 300 ellos a year. Yellows extended learning opportunity. So if it's if a student wants to take Mandarin Chinese, we're not offering it. But they don't want to do either. But there's somebody who can teach them Mandarin Chinese in the community.  We'll set up an ELO for them.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: The elbows are as rigorous, if not more, as we've now implemented them in the school. What a student has to do, the competencies, all of that. It's pretty intense,

[9098-335] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: That. For.
TEXT> Me to And math 180 has been added. We've done read 180 and now we have math 180. As a as a follow up program for our math learners who need extra help. So we're really excited about that coming in. So we have sample pathways in English now so that you can take a look at a pathway in the English department. As Charlie was talking about earlier. We have that same thing in here for our ICT courses. So it's different chunks you can enter in at different places. It used to be you had to start with ICT or keyboarding, and then you had to just follow this one  domino. But now you can come in in a variety of places, wherever your interest lies, and then kind of move in different pathways through our technology courses that way. So that in a nutshell, is some of the bigger things. Yep. Sample pathways in digital technology and business. So and we've we've peppered the entire with artwork, which is nice to show off some of the wonderful things and give credit to the kids.  And what they do in their art classes and show off their talents that way. So any questions? Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank.

[9098-344] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> The good news is there are many conflicts about our students, graduation awards, etc.. The bad news is  it conflicts with school board meetings. So there were two dates in early June. And the dates? Important because we want to have a food service presentation.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: How about you in first?

[9098-499] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: National Honor Society fundraiser.
TEXT> Karen Collison is the National Honor Society advisor and was not able to be here this evening and asked if I could speak to this. In the past, they've done a fundraiser called shantytown and the the point of the fundraiser. And you may be able to speak to this a little historically better than I is to raise awareness about homelessness in our community. So they're asking to do it again. And, this time we  talked more specifically about,  making sure we recognize that we have homeless students in our community. And in our high school, and to to do this in a way that is respectful of all of our students.  And so we we've included some additional components. One would be they'll be meeting at the Claremont Soup Kitchen to help serve the evening meal.  We the money raised will be split between the National Honor Society and our one for all space. So the the any money raised in this fundraiser will go immediately back to  our students and families.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: What what did it do before? Did it just all go?

[9098-504] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: To,
TEXT> Support our own students first.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are they going to be raising money doing this?

[9098-506] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Are they going to be raising money doing this?
TEXT> My understanding is  that they,  solicit pledges and donations from different community groups and individuals to spend the night outside  or in some semblance of a shelter after  they'll be viewing. A documentary regarding  the plight of homeless youth. We just recently released, and I and I will be talking more about this in the future. We had a film made here in our community. It was released at the last, Friday's homeless liaison meeting. It's now posted in a couple places on. Online. But that's a it's an 18 minute film that chronicles homelessness of, of youth in  our state.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: It's where that's posted.

[9098-508] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: It's where that's posted.
TEXT> Yeah, I can I can post it and it will be something that I've actually liked to view here. And so they will be creating  a camp based, Setting to sleep in, I believe it's out here behind this building. And then, they'll be watching the film to increase their awareness about the topic, and then they will be serving at the soup kitchen. And so it's a Sunday evening into Monday evening.  And I've also agreed to do, you know, to, to be present for the film viewing, but then to kind of do some question and answer. With the students afterward before they settle down for the evening. So,  there will be staff on duty throughout the evening. Claremont Police Department will be surveilling the area behind the middle school throughout the night. And then hoping to get a donation of a porta potty to have that available. And then, they'll go to class the next day. So some of the students are seniors. This is the week before. Graduation, so it's coming up shortly. It's June 4th and fifth, I believe. And so that's all being taken into account.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: How many students are there?

[9098-523] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Help.
TEXT> More  of our students understand what all of our students might be experiencing.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Do we have a motion?

[9128-12] Mary Ann Lovett | Student representative to the school board (ASR 'Mary Ann love it', 'M | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: Oh.
TEXT> So for those who don't know, this will be my last meeting as a student representative next week. I know next week I graduate and I will be headed off to Roanoke in Virginia. So I have made a farewell address for the school board. There's extra copies on the table over there if you'd like to read along, or if you would like to email me, I can always send a copy virtually. Two years ago, I sat among others, waiting for their turn to speak during citizens comments. As I sat alone listening to the opening remarks, Doctor Berry walked in and found her seat next to mine. We exchanged hellos, quietly inquiring why the other one was there. Then suddenly she turned to me and asked, would you be the student representative? I have to go up there and tell him I have no one if you don't. Feeling the pressure of the moment, I accepted and I have not regretted it since. Thank you for giving me two years of representing the Saw six schools and speaking on behalf of many voices who are not often heard. But with this gratitude comes reflection.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: Looking back, there are times in which I must express disappointment. I hope the board takes my thoughts and turns them into action. If not action, merely a discussion. Improvement

[9128-14] Mary Ann Lovett | Student representative to the school board (ASR 'Mary Ann love it', 'M | 2017-05-31
PREV> Mary Ann Lovett: nor the goal, but themselves. I'm not saying one should never use past experiences as part of their point, but to be sure, the past experiences is of relevance to not only them, but the others. And that is fit for public discussion, not personal.
TEXT> We are a public board. During my time and youth in government, I learned one of the most valuable lessons of public official could know. With debate comes a need for structure. At the school board, the structure is sometimes lacking. As of now, a member may speak on a topic as long as they would like, unless another motions for close of discussion and is approved, meaning a discussion could go on forever without a limit on how long one can speak or how long a discussion can last. Words are often repeated and statements are continuously made. This results in a lack of attention from others, creating an unproductive discussion. If there was an allotted time for each discussion topic, the statements being made would be more impactful.  Also, in proper parliamentary procedure one one must ask the chair before he or she may speak. This allows for order and regulation. Often I have seen people speak freely, breaking the procedure without any reprimanding. This results in others speaking more than some cutting people off and an apparent lack of respect. I hope next year the board will follow this more strictly and ask themselves if what they are about to say has been said, or if they should even say it.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: Thankfully, doctor McGowan sends out an email prior to the schoolroom meeting saying the topics I will be discussed and action items needed to be met. This allows time for

[9128-16] Mary Ann Lovett | Student representative to the school board (ASR 'Mary Ann love it', 'M | 2017-05-31
PREV> Mary Ann Lovett: to ensure that students are getting most of their education that the taxpayers are funding. It's important to remember the board's responsibility, or else boundaries will be crossed and lines will be faded when having discussions and making decisions. I hope the conclusions follow that.
TEXT> This includes a joint discussions with the City Council. The items discussed must have common ground between both bodies and the ability to promote change, or else it is a waste of both groups of time. Each body is equally important, but put together their opportunities are limitless. The only obstacles stopping them are the topics of merit that cannot be acted upon or hold no relevance to either the school board or city council. At the end of it all, the true recipients of the school board actions are the students. It is easy to forget their places when they are not present at the meeting, which is why it's so important to listen to what the student representative has to say.  I also consider the inclusion of the future representative in nonpublic sessions more often. If the actions the school board makes are for the students, the soon should have a portion of say in the matter. Also, I would like to ask the permanent include the student representative in roll Call. Sometimes it's the smallest actions in life that mean the most, such as someone's presence in a school board meeting and what they have to say.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: Finally, I want to talk about appearance. Life happens and instances occur, but regular tardiness without a reason is not acceptable of any member. It is rude, disrespectful, and a

[9128-23] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: Superintendents report.
TEXT> I after Mary Ann Lovett's comments, I don't really have too much more to say other than to remind you that the next few weeks here in the Claremont School District,  there are so many opportunities in so many  different events dealing with the academics, dealing with the athletics, dealing with the arts.  Please look on the Claremont School District district calendar because every school has important events. Tomorrow night, for example, is the annual spring concert by Stevens High School. And this concert  is obviously our high school students, but it also represents our elementary schools and our middle school as well, who at one time were most of them were musicians at that level. So this is just one example. But,  and obviously June 7th was going to be our first school board meeting. That is senior night recognition night. And obviously June 8th is is their graduation. But though the Stevens High School is our flagship and receive a lot of attention.  I also  want to remind all of all of us,  especially the community and parents, to to review the calendar and understand and acknowledge the wonderful things and events that have occurring next two and a half weeks  at our elementary schools and middle school as well. Reviewing the calendar, participating in some of these events will,   clearly illustrate why we are very proud of our school district as measured by our students. So thank you.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Why we're there? Because I believe we all got invitations to graduation. Can you go over the process for graduation and what the school board role could be if we

[9128-26] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-05-31
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: that in the past. Brian wrapped it last year. I made a few comments last year. I haven't seen the the the agenda, if you will, for graduation, but I will ask Pat to to revisit that and we'll reach out to all of you.
TEXT> Yeah. It was more of the content of just being up there. I'm not looking for us to actually say much. The year I did, it was just up there being able to. Fortunately for me, it was my daughter's class. So I knew a ton of the kids, and it was just nice to be able to even give a couple of diplomas out just to be part of that. Or even if we're just up on the stage when the kids walk by. That, to me, is it's what we're all about. When all is said and done, it's a good night and we can have a full board to be able to just represent that to the kids. I think it's awesome. I'm not looking for us to actually have a place on the agenda, just more of a seat on the stage.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: There will definitely be seats on the stage, but, I think it does give a very positive comment to the community because school board members, as Marion Lovett just said,

[9128-31] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: her know tonight. I think we'll be okay. We'll make chairs when we get there if we need to. Okay. Any questions for the superintendent? Superintendents report. Citizens comments. Anybody from the public? Okay. Was that. Is that your cue? The thunder? Go ahead. Michelle.
TEXT> Go to the. Good evening. I speak not as a board member, but as a citizen. Tonight. I came onto the board a year and a half ago, voted in, and I was very proud of the opportunity. I'd like to express, though,  a moment to just say I'm sorry that my emotions got the best of me. Last week we talked about a topic that is extremely close to my home. It's affecting my home greatly and unfortunately it at a rate that that I'm struggling still to figure out. But to the community, it takes a village to raise a child.  And what I wanted to say was, is that it's so important whether I share my personal story of my child struggling and my grandson struggling, I feel that it's necessary for the public to hear that we are we are a community working together, and that even a board member can be affected greatly by the pains of incarceration and drug addiction  and some of the turmoils that we're we're facing  and,  and the problems with school and how we're going to handle it.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And now that it's opened the can of worms, as we would want to say, I'm proud of the fact that I'm able to share my story. And if anyone

[9128-46] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Scott: our program and the schedule ease the financial piece of the 20 2020 piece. I'll talk about that at the end and have some comparisons there to look at for you. And then if you guys have questions or hear the answer, all your questions.
TEXT> Thank you very much. Say you six, for inviting us to bid on your food service contract and for inviting us tonight for this presentation. Hopefully I won't be drowned out by the thunder and the rain. As Scott said, my name is Nina Hansen. I have worked with the Abbey Group for over 13 years.  I'm a school nutrition specialist. I work in the field training and overseeing accounts, and as part of my role is mentoring new accounts. And yours might be one of them. I can tell from the comments, the previous comments that this is a very dedicated, board and we're thrilled to be able to present to you tonight. So just a few program highlights that go into a lot more detail in the binders that you have. And, of course, the program wouldn't exist without the children in your school district and the students.  So with with that said, the our focus in this little handout is really things that of  that are common questions and that affect the board and the business office specifically, when you contract with an outside vendor.  But we don't feel like outsiders.
NEXT> Nina Hansen: We are we are part of your community, and we want to be thought of as that, that we are an extension of the school community, and we are a

[9128-47] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Nina Hansen: students. So with with that said, the our focus in this little handout is really things that of that are common questions and that affect the board and the business office specifically, when you contract with an outside vendor. But we don't feel like outsiders.
TEXT> We are we are part of your community, and we want to be thought of as that, that we are an extension of the school community, and we are a partner with you in providing the students with the best possible nutrition,  and variety in their meals, working with them together to build a strong program, and working with the different,  different staff and different areas of the school community to make it a wonderful experience for the kids. So typically when we  are rewarded, a  are awarded a food service contract, the employees become our employees of the Abbey Group, and we do everything in our power to maintain that staff with guidance from the board. If there are some staff members that, maybe are not going to make that transition, that's something that is discussed privately. But we do interview all the employees and make every effort to hire those that want to come on board with us. We  have a great training program, so it takes several days leading up to the transition where we explain and train and, give guidance on the way our program functions to the existing employees. And they're really usually very enthusiastic.  Scott is going to go into the financial details, but I think we try and make the transition as easy as possible for them, not any major changes.
NEXT> Nina Hansen: And that again creates a lot less stress in the transition. So we're happy about that. You can see again in the proposal, we're very dedicated to providing a lot

[9128-48] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Nina Hansen: guidance on the way our program functions to the existing employees. And they're really usually very enthusiastic. Scott is going to go into the financial details, but I think we try and make the transition as easy as possible for them, not any major changes.
TEXT> And that again creates a lot less stress in the transition. So we're happy about that. You can see again in the proposal, we're very dedicated to providing a lot of educational opportunities for our staff. We have really welcomed the professionalism that has become part of school nutrition programs. The USDA has mandated it, but we  have long before made it our  goal to make sure  if half our staff don't know what a fiddlehead green is, and we're trying to serve it to the students that, you know, we're all on the same page. So we're educating as we go with our staff to, I don't think that you are presently working with a point of sale system, but we have an online point of sale system that I think parents will really like and students will like. It works with a Pin number, just like at an ATM machine. But parents can make online deposits onto their student accounts. They can,  also look at student history to see who's buying what, and they can put spending limits on the account. That's a really great feature. I think the business office loves the the way the financial reports are generated and at a touch of the button. So again, lots more detail in your proposal for that.  Scott mentioned the Abbey Group.
NEXT> Nina Hansen: We have a wide breadth of experience. God has been with the company for over 30 years, Jace over ten years. And, again, that's, we wear that as a badge

[9128-49] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Nina Hansen: limits on the account. That's a really great feature. I think the business office loves the the way the financial reports are generated and at a touch of the button. So again, lots more detail in your proposal for that. Scott mentioned the Abbey Group.
TEXT> We have a wide breadth of experience. God has been with the company for over 30 years, Jace over ten years.  And, again, that's, we wear that as a badge of honor that our employees, we have very, very long term and dedicated employees. And we are hoping saw six employees join our team. We're constantly trying to innovate and promote healthy meals and delicious meals to the students. We do lots of we do that in lots of different ways. Monthly promotions. We have fun posters, we try and promote local products through our harvest of the month program. Our menus are often, you know, ever changing and can reflect themes that are going on at the school at the at that time or if,  international program wants to focus on Italian cuisine. One week we all work together to make that happen. So we look at the kitchen. And as the cafeteria is probably one of the biggest learning laboratories that you have in the school, and we welcome students to be part of that in every facet that they can be. I'm going to miss having Mary on the Food Advisory Committee, but every month we like to get together with the student committee and discuss the goals of the program, what's not working well, what is working well. And as you know, students don't pull any punches. So we just work together to solve problems.
NEXT> Nina Hansen: And again, back to the menus. We pride ourselves. And if you have a chance to look at our menu in cooking as much as we can from scratch, we're

[9128-50] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Nina Hansen: Committee, but every month we like to get together with the student committee and discuss the goals of the program, what's not working well, what is working well. And as you know, students don't pull any punches. So we just work together to solve problems.
TEXT> And again, back to the menus. We pride ourselves. And if you have a chance to look at our menu in cooking as much as we can from scratch, we're not opening boxes.  We are creating, homemade meals that taste great. Whether it's homemade chicken tenders that are still popular with students. Could be homemade mac and cheese, but with a buffalo chicken, you know, twist. So. But again, the most nutritious following all the USDA guidelines but very appealing to the kids. So thank you. Sure.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: I know that we start basically with USDA requirements but but then do you develop new meals, try them at certain locations and then roll them out to every district

[9128-52] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michael O'Neill: do it based on what you know? Obviously, it takes a little while to get a history of a district together to see what they like and what they don't like, right? How long does it take to transition the menu to for that normally?
TEXT> Well, you know, we can transition as early as somebody gives us, especially with working with existing employees. They know what are the most popular meals. And so things that we wouldn't want to change on the menu when we develop new recipes, yes, we try them at different sites or we hear that, you know, such and such a school is trying this and it's, you know, been a huge hit. You know, we also we evaluate every month which menus are not working well.  And of course there is always one at the bottom. But the, you know, the kids vote with their feet on certain items, you know, and also sometimes, you know, years ago something was popular and it's fallen out of favor.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: And yeah. How often do you meet with student advisory committees?

[9128-54] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michael O'Neill: And yeah. How often do you meet with student advisory committees?
TEXT> It's usually monthly. So as long as the advisory committee is there, if if we have to start, one might take a couple of,  you know, a couple of months to actually get the kids together, get the representatives together. It's nice to to have an administrator on that board, a parent, usually a health care provider, you know, within the district is really makes a great wellness committee.
NEXT> Scott: Thank you. Okay. Sure. Similar to that.

[9128-73] Jason Hughes | Food service director, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated; spelling  | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: Oh yeah.
TEXT> Oh I'm pretty loud though.  So here let me let me go. Oh okay. So I'll talk into the people at home as well. So I'm Jason Hughes I'm the food service director for southern New Hampshire. Currently I'm the food service director for Unity Elementary School. What we do in a lot of our sites is we encourage our staff to develop a training program for kids. It's not a Junior Iron Chef program. They call it a different program at each site. And we encourage kids probably fourth grade and up to join. It's a culinary adventure. They come in after school, we support the school, we provide chef jackets and fun things for the kids to do, learning tools and the product for them to use, and they do about a six week course. They rotate during food safety,  making a meal, nutritional guidelines, washing hands just from the general bottom all the way up and then they rotate at the end. We try to do a dinner for somebody, maybe someone special in the community, or maybe the school board. And a lot of the kids go sign up again for the next semester.
NEXT> Jason Hughes: So I actually have three schools right now that currently run a teaching program by the chef in elementary schools, so we'd love to do that in the high school.

[9128-74] Jason Hughes | Food service director, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated; spelling  | 2017-05-31
PREV> Jason Hughes: bottom all the way up and then they rotate at the end. We try to do a dinner for somebody, maybe someone special in the community, or maybe the school board. And a lot of the kids go sign up again for the next semester.
TEXT> So I actually have three schools right now that currently run a teaching program by the chef in elementary schools, so we'd love to do that in the high school. I know that New Hampshire's working on Junior Iron Chef right now, so we're really we always sponsored junior Iron Chef teams, and we bring a lot of that local and working with the kids and getting them involved. So any time that there's an opportunity to bring kids into the kitchen, we're really open to that.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Thank you. Any other questions at this point. Go ahead.

[9128-77] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member (asks about students without lunch money [ | 2017-05-31
PREV> Scott: There's a.
TEXT> Guilty of sometimes forgetting to said buddy. Oh  how do you how do you deal with the kids that may show up for lunch and not have money with them. Or may actually have a bill, right.
NEXT> Scott: Work together with the district office and what kind of a charge policy they would like us to run? Each on our website, we have a different charge policy for

[9128-78] Scott | Vice President of Operations, The Abbey Group, food service bidder (fi | 2017-05-31
PREV> Unidentified: Guilty of sometimes forgetting to said buddy. Oh how do you how do you deal with the kids that may show up for lunch and not have money with them. Or may actually have a bill, right.
TEXT> Work together with the district office and what kind of a charge policy they would like us to run? Each on our website, we have a different charge policy for each school. You know, some  some schools are one strict two meal policy, and some schools don't want us talking to kids at all. And they deal with the collection piece on the end, and we just keep feeding the kids. But in no case that we're going to deny kids food without first working with the administration and also the parents knowing it's not the kids fault that they don't have money in their account.  Our system, our point of sale system has an email feature that we can push bills out automatically. So we've been pushing bills out twice a week, Fridays and Monday afternoons so the parents can be notified they're in our K12 payment system, automatically generates a text message or an email when their accounts go to a low status. So there really isn't any real reason that they should be out of money. But occasionally there are cases where they forget to send in money,  and our online payment system interacts, reporting sale instantaneously. As soon as they put money on, it goes right on their account. It's live.
NEXT> Nina Hansen: Some parents ask us to call them, you know, when the account gets to a certain balance. So I'm the same with you. If I have four kids, it doesn't

[9128-110] Scott | Vice President of Operations, The Abbey Group, food service bidder (fi | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So I guess I just wanted to understand, so for free or reduced meals. For a free meal at the child, you see, is that would they be able to access, like the fruit and salad bar without it?
TEXT> All choices are available to all students in every school, and we try to promote that every chance we can get, because there is always those questions. But no matter what the status of the students are free, reduced or paid. It's very confidential. With our computer system, everybody is treated equally and everybody has every choice available to them. In every school we really promote is is part of our package. We're promoting more reimbursable meals, and reimbursable meals are available to all students.  So that's that's a benefit to to everybody. We have a lot of great choices and we believe we're going to serve more students. If you look at our  the hourly employees, we've budgeted 226 little over 226,000  in our competition, budgeted just under 179,000. So you'll see that we we've kept the personal personal days are at right now is seven  and and we also have a training day in there that represents around $5,000 more in our budget for that. And again, we've added that extra position at the high school and kept everybody's wages where they were at. So that's something that's negotiable. It's your program. But we just fell through. The transition is making it as smooth as possible. We basically provided all the employees what they're currently, being paid.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I did another staffing question from Brian actually, and it looks like both proposals are equal. So I don't know if this was an air of queue issue or not,

[9128-116] Scott | Vice President of Operations, The Abbey Group, food service bidder (fi | 2017-05-31
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Okay.
TEXT> So in our proposal we've had the point of sale system because everybody hears, you know, using pen and paper. We're going to put computer systems, brand new computer systems in every school with a computer. Nice. The best computer car printer, touch monitor, surge protector, caster everything. And the equipment that's going at the end of the contract will be owned by the district, so that costs will go down in the next contract cycle. It also comes with a K12 payment system where parents can pay online. We also have some optional features that we didn't include. That would be a great benefit to the district as Power School Connector, where we'll actually connect up to your student database and as a student is added to the to the database. They move in or move to a different school. Our point of sales are automatically updated, and that's a really good feature. There's no delay. There's also a free and reduced module where we can process free and reduced applications, because our plan is to you guys will have your own database and in your central office, if you wanted your own computer for whoever's going to do free and reduced, we can you can be integrated right into our point of sale system.
NEXT> Scott: So we had the free and reduced module. The application.com or parents from home can apply for free and reduced. They won't have to send an application anymore. So this

[9128-158] Jason Hughes | Food service director, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated; spelling  | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: But it shows. I mean, it's actually showing like, hey, you could go in and say, oh, my grandson's eating.
TEXT> Yeah. So I had a, I had a parent contact me today and ask. They had gone into their child's account and seen that every day that they were purchasing pizza. That's what it says in the statement. And the next line says switch. And so she said, could you tell me what this switch charge is? And I said, well, the switch charge is the can of juice that your child is buying every day. She said, thank you so much for the clarification. I wondered where the money was going. So what it does is it will break down the a la carte. So and like we said, they can put a spending limit. So if you're selling all the card items in an elementary school or a middle school where the kids don't really have that consciousness yet of where the money is going or coming from, you can put a spending limit on it. You can go in and check. Is my child buying ice cream every day? I'd only like my child to buy ice cream on Fridays. So we work with the admin teams first to see what the building supervisors want to have served in their buildings, when they want to have it served, and then secondary. We work with the parents to make sure that the children are spending the money the way the parents want them to.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Sure that on the free lunch. How do you.

[9128-179] Matt Pearce | Executive chef, Fresh Picks Cafe (introduced by Farrow; ASR 'Matt Pear | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Cantillon: have sugar cookies with sprinkles. This is kind of a new thing. And then this is a brand new thing. These were made with some butter commodity some butter and cocoa and a fantastic. So I'm just going to let you guys pass these around.
TEXT> So what I have is a promotion, which is a pretty normal meal that is pretty much a grab and go concept for, for the kids that can come in and just grab it. A few different varieties that we're fooling around with. Some on the breakfast end, which is a honey yogurt. Grape strawberries, with some vegetarian options to I have one Asian theme with some tofu and some roasted broccoli. This one here is tomato and fresh basil.  So,
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: You just put those in an open top or something so they can just grab them on the way by or they're not.

[9128-220] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Scott: For.
TEXT> Your participation growth in the first year of the program, 5 or 6 years ago, before, everything was whole grain and we had to serve beans and all of that kind of stuff. We would go into programs and literally see participation double just by some of the programs we do, some of the stuff we do, what we really found over the course of the past few years, we can do a great job with and hummus and some of this stuff that you see in front of you. It takes some time to train the kids. Okay. So we really feel our projected growth 10% at lunch, 13% at breakfast is in line with what's reasonable for growth under the current regulations, with the programs we have in the first year and what we used to see, like I said, five, six, ten years ago when I first started this, we would go in, we'd see double participation and have a kind of level off. Now we kind of see more of a steady growth in participation year over year. As we get kids used to these newer choices have the chance to do the tri bites, really get the kids trying some different things that are in line with regulations. Okay. And then last bullet is a guaranteed financial return. Our financial proposal projects a $20,000 surplus of revenues over expenses for this program for the next school year.
NEXT> Chris Farrow: And that is a guaranteed return, which means that if our revenues are $20,000 higher than the expenses we put out, that is money that belongs to the school district.

[9128-266] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: From Mike.
TEXT> Yes. Sorry. Not from the school district. From Mike. Thank you. And from there, we look for any specific, criteria that has been included in the RFP. You know, a great example, a different RFP is, you know, sometimes they'll be certain things that employees have that the school districts want to make sure it's maintained. Okay. We'll take all of that into consideration. And then we will include that in our proposal. So in the Claremont proposal, all of the existing staff, their rates are included in here with a cost of living increase for next year. At the same hours that they are at for now and that they work now. Okay. All employees in this district will have the opportunity to interview with us, and take those positions, and they really get priority, because they know the buildings. They know the kids, they know your community. So we really try and do our best to retain as many of those employees as possible. Really, the only time that doesn't happen is when a school district comes to us and says, please don't let this person back in my building. I've actually had that happen. I had one school district where the building principal at the high school said, I don't want some of these people back in my building. And I met the first two ladies and I was like.
NEXT> Matt Pearce: What.

[9128-286] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: Yes.
TEXT> From an educational standpoint. What do you envision for opportunities for students educationally or even employment?
NEXT> Chris Farrow: Even employment.

[9128-319] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: The.
TEXT> You know, and it's really finding that balance between that stuff that the kids just go for and the stuff that we want to teach them to eat. Yeah. You know, because things like French Toast Day, chicken nugget Day and the elementaries, not so much at the secondary levels. That's the kind of stuff that the kids really want. You know what I mean? And we have to give them a little bit of that too, to keep that participation up. Right? But it gives us the opportunity to get them to try kale chips with it or try this with it or try.
NEXT> Chris Irish: That one. Right, right.

[9128-340] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: Roasted tofu.
TEXT> Cilantro, roasted tofu, edamame to chicken, that kind of stuff. We'll have some districts where the kids go so nuts over it. We'll run it all the time. We'll have some districts where we get to work those kids into it, you know what I mean? So that, you know,  this is all there. It's all available. We'll try it all. Some will take right away, some will be a little longer. Some may never take Michelle.
NEXT> Unidentified: So. So these would.

[9128-343] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Be available for the grade school children also all grades. And then is there a fruit and salad bar also. Or is it a just a general menu that that day this is what you're having and that's it.
TEXT> Typically what we do with that. Again it kind of varies from location, location and the physical setup of the location.  We always offer a variety of additional fruits and vegetables that are not necessarily on the menu. You know, so even if it says, you know, the day's menu has applesauce on it, we still have fresh fruit out. A lot of times we'll have a fresh vegetable choice in addition to like, whatever vegetable choices on the menu and have some variety there, the kids can have that choice from. And really the way that we train our staff is that if kids ask for more vegetables, give them more vegetables. If kids ask for.
NEXT> Unidentified: I want a pile of corn this big.

[9128-345] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Unidentified: I want a pile of corn this big.
TEXT> If they eat it, great. If you give them a pile of corn this big and they only eat half of it, that's where the education comes in and say, okay, you know, you can have as much corn as you're going to eat. Not as much as you want to see on your tray as much as you can eat. You know, it's kind of a common sense thing because if you try to go unlimited fruits and vegetables with younger kids especially, you know, if it's a self-service type of thing that can get kind of out of control. Middle and high schools tend to be more self-service. And, you know, kind of the kids will take what they want. But, you know, that's really kind of how it works. Really the only place that I've ever seen where the whole concept of the fruit and vegetable bar blew my mind was, it's South Meadow in the school district, South Meadow Middle School. We have an eight foot table with all of these different varieties of fruits and vegetables on it.
NEXT> Chris Farrow: And the kids, when they were coming through the first few days that we were there, were just loading up and I'm like, whoa, whoa, what's going on? They also

[9128-346] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Farrow: ever seen where the whole concept of the fruit and vegetable bar blew my mind was, it's South Meadow in the school district, South Meadow Middle School. We have an eight foot table with all of these different varieties of fruits and vegetables on it.
TEXT> And the kids, when they were coming through the first few days that we were there, were just loading up and I'm like, whoa, whoa, what's going on? They also have a great composting program. They actually have a big compost bin right out back. So after the kids were doing it for a couple of days because they eat in their classrooms, the district manager and I went over and checked the compost bin after  lunch. There's hardly anything in there. Okay. But out more fruits and vegetables.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Second person. That was, I noticed that you have a recycle program, but what is your service? Is it do you have metal forks and spoons or.

[9128-350] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Dishes at the. I mean, basically what I'm hearing, I guess, is you're going to tailor to what we want, right?
TEXT> What you want and what we can partner with you on. So, you know, metal silverware is a great example. Because we do metal silverware in a lot of locations, we really need to partner with the school on having that metal silverware. You know, because our cafeteria staff really can't monitor what the kids are doing in the cafeteria. And what you can find is unless there's a system in place, unless the lunch monitors are helping, they wind up throwing out the metal civil war. And it's actually worse for the environment than what we were doing before. You know.
NEXT> Matt Pearce: Really.

[9128-352] Chris Cantillon | District manager, Fresh Picks Cafe (attribution by elimination; ASR 'C | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: Really.
TEXT> Good model was Lebanon. When they decided that they wanted to go to metal silverware. They started at the elementary schools and just did it there. And then those kids, when they moved up into middle school,  they were already used to now, okay, the silverware goes here over in this bucket. And then by the time they got to high school, so it was over several year plan to get to that point. But Lebanon is middle silverware through the whole district.
NEXT> Chris Farrow: You know, and then in terms of recycling that kind of stuff, again, it depends on the school district and what they want to do with it. We have some

[9128-361] Chris Cantillon | District manager, Fresh Picks Cafe (attribution by elimination; ASR 'C | 2017-05-31
PREV> Unidentified: A lot.
TEXT> Of it is at this time you do this, and then at this time you do this and some of it, maybe you're running two cash registers and you get through the majority of the students coming through, and then it's just a trickle coming through instead of keeping two people on a cash register. Okay, ten past this cashier stops doing that, goes over here and starts restocking this station. It's a it's a lot of.
NEXT> Unidentified: Easy, structured.

[9128-462] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-05-31
PREV> Unidentified: Of it.
TEXT> I think it's a Google app too. So if we we're 1 to 1 right. Well, for those of our kids that have like grown books or whatnot. It's a Google app. They would have access to that through. So that to me that would be an easy thing to put on all the Chromebooks that we have the kids use.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Yeah, I would just like the we don't we don't have any standing policies, do we, that state that kids can't have cell phones? It's in at lunch.

[9170-9] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Right after the school year starts, kindergarten in starting until the following Monday after the students arrived. Am I correct, Corey?
TEXT> Yes. The the kindergarten screening starts the Tuesday after Labor Day.  School starts for all students in grades one through 12 on the Tuesday after Labor Day. But kindergarten screenings start that day, and the kindergarten students don't actually start the full day until the following week.  I can speak from the lens of a in coming kindergarten parent, and when I registered my child for kindergarten, I had to submit my immunization immunization records,  and for some reason, on my immunization records, the lead screening wasn't listed. So I got a lovely note back from one of our schools saying, you know, your child needs to be screened for lead, called my pediatrician and learned that  it just wasn't included for whatever reason on that record. So they were able to send it's working separately.  I think there's. Some,  I think there are some hiccups that we're going to have to overcome,  through this process. And I think there are some folks who, you know, perhaps the older child was screened, found to be led free. Nothing in the environment had changed. And so the doctor recommended that the younger child not be screened. So we need to be able to maneuver through those scenarios or those folks who don't have the screening done  or have not had the screening done.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: What is our process? To assist them specifically if they're not coming in with that documentation in hand, that they have either had it done or they have a note

[9170-16] Jason Benware | Public commenter (self-ID 'Jason. Ben. Where?' [32], ward not given; l | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jason Benware: It said based upon the crime rates, drug use rates, and level of mental health, which was written poorly anyway because mental health is a good thing. Mental health issues are a bad thing, right? If you have mental health, you're you're actually good, right?
TEXT> Anyway, it's evident that  not enough lead testing was done or a lead screening has been done in this town. That's pretty presumptuous to believe that the reasons in the problems that we have in this town are based upon lead poisoning. Did did you guys read this, or was I the only guy who saw this? Because to me, that's a very presumptuous. Paragraph. Pull it out if you have it, read the last paragraph there. It was highlighted for me. Whoever sent it home with my for my kid because he's going to kindergarten. I read that I have a bassist and a background in science that's really not scientific at all. To think that the town and the problems that we have, our town, these are socio economic problems, are based upon kids being lead poisoned, not to mention the people, the adults who are acting in these manners, who even said they lived here when they were kids, they might have come from somewhere else. So let testing in Claremont would not have changed that. So even though I think what you guys are doing is very good, I think the message that you sent out in that letter was very poorly written, and I would suggest that you change that because.
NEXT> Jason Benware: The cause and the effect are very different. A kid who has led poisoning obviously has cognitive issues and many other things. But to say that the person who is

[9170-64] Kristen Parks | Vice President of Programs, Green Dot, etc. (presenter; self-ID [82],  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: of the things that comes up, obviously, is my assault, and I'm talking about my anger towards the man who hurt me and my anger towards these women who didn't help because in my mind, the guy who hurt me is just a bad person.
TEXT> Like there's just something fundamentally wrong with him. But my friends, my friends are good people. Those women are good people. And how could good people not help somebody? And as we start talking about it, and as I'm kind of letting all that stuff go, one of the things that comes up is that clearly they did care. They were glad he was gone. They were relieved he wasn't there anymore because they thought I might get hurt. It wasn't a lack of compassion that kept them from acting. It wasn't because they didn't care. That's not what kept them from doing something. They did care. And so I began to wonder, what if they just had things that made it hard for them? And to be honest, I'll probably never know exactly why they didn't do anything. But I do wonder. I wonder if they were worried that they were going to lose their jobs. Fast food jobs are not the most stable in the planet, and most of those women were supporting their families on their jobs. I was a teenager doing summer work, right? Like so. Maybe they were worried they lose their job and the impact that would have on their kids.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: Maybe they were worried that they were wrong or they were creating drama in the workspace. Maybe they were worried that he would retaliate against them in some way. Maybe

[9170-71] Kristen Parks | Vice President of Programs, Green Dot, etc. (presenter; self-ID [82],  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: But it didn't stop there. Mark went and told a bunch of his friends, hey, I created this really cool, awesome new thing called Facebook. It'll take you two minutes. And so they put in usernames, they put in passwords, and they create Facebook accounts.
TEXT> And then they tell their friends, it's going to take you two minutes. It's really quick and easy to do. And so they put in their username, they put in passwords and they create Facebook accounts. And they go home on summer vacation and on holiday breaks and see their friends from all of these other colleges. Hey, there's an easy way for us to keep in touch. It takes you two minutes. Put in a username, put in a password, and you've got a Facebook account. And we slowly begin to see this ripple across the entire country. Then Mark makes the decision to open it up to everybody. So now all of these college students, their younger siblings went on Facebook and then the parents get wind of it and we go, this could be a great way to keep tabs on my kids. And so then parents started joining Facebook, which we were convinced would then be the death of Facebook. Right? When parents  get involved, that's when things slowly become uncool. But that's not actually what happened. A lot of kids then started making multiple accounts, one that they fronted their parents with and one that was their actual real account. And so we actually saw a little bit of doubling in Facebook accounts.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: And today we have millions of active Facebook accounts all over the world. And I go, has the culture changed now? Yes. In a really big, really substantial way. We

[9170-94] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [69] and 'Missoula | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: applied to be part of it. We needed two communities. So Claremont and Keene, geographically were similar, demographically were similar, and so that they were chosen to be part of the pilot of this. And so they applied for it. Thank you. Yeah. Of course.
TEXT> My question is. How are we connecting this to our kids in the community, or how are we planning to connect this information? Yes, to kids in our community.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: So one of the ways that we are is we're actually we've hosted some youth summits. We did this back in October with some of your middle school, with your

[9170-95] Kristen Parks | Vice President of Programs, Green Dot, etc. (presenter; self-ID [82],  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: My question is. How are we connecting this to our kids in the community, or how are we planning to connect this information? Yes, to kids in our community.
TEXT> So one of the ways that we are is we're actually we've hosted some youth summits. We did this back in October  with some of your middle school, with your high school youth. So I came in and facilitated two days of youth summits. And to get your kids the information, there is the community program is targeted specifically towards adults. There is a high school program. But because this is being evaluated and this is kind of the nature of research, we don't want to overlap. So for for a period of time, you'll you'll want to keep it concentrated to the adults within your community. But certainly as we near the end of the study, we could expand into high schools. Yeah, it's part of the,  I think, pro and con of research as it can feel like. Well.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: To me, I'm just thinking at some point to start educating younger than their internalizing it quicker.

[9170-100] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: So.
TEXT> We've had many. Folks in the school district trained. They've completed the. Five hour bystander training.  I am one of the trainers for the initiative. And so there's a significant overlap at the adult. Level for this program, because we recognize the need for the reduction of violence for the benefit of our children. And so although we are not directly training our children in this model, we are training the adults  who work directly with our children in this model and expanding that across a larger population of our adults as we're able.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[9170-102] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> When you talk about, if I may, if you talk about the school community, this isn't about adults. This is also about children. Children want to be able to come into school and know they're going into school every day, feeling physically and emotionally safe, that they're not going to be bothered, and that at the safe place  and and that it's okay to to assist someone or to confront someone who is being bothered.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: Yes, absolutely. Absolutely.

[9170-159] Deb | Director, Turning Points Network (self-ID [250]; first name per [188], | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: Any other burning. Any questions.
TEXT> Just want to make one quick comment if I made a little bit tangential, but I just want to let folks know that Turning Points Network is currently in all of the Claremont schools doing violence prevention programing with youth. So even though green Dot, we're not allowed right now to have green Dot in the schools, we have a step curriculum K through 12 pre-K through 12th grade where we're we're teaching kids and faculty around bullying or anti-bullying, if you will. Sexual harassment safe. Safe relationships. Healthy relationships. So the kids or the youth are certainly getting programing. So just to let you all know that. Thank you, thank.
NEXT> Unidentified: You, thank you all. Well, thank.

[9170-185] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (co-presides; 'Chair Wrap' [4], 'That's u | 2017-06-22
PREV> Charlene Lovett: So how can we do what you're saying and it with how are we promoting the school district as a key element of economic growth in the city? If we can put that on the agenda, I think that would be good thoughts on that.
TEXT> I think part of what part of our discussions has been, not only student achievement, but also showing what kind of growth our children are getting as well.  And that part of that I ready data that we've been collecting.  Again, it's been the first year, but it has it does show what we've been doing as far as student growth.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[9170-207] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: looks like in our community. And then for us to talk about what we're seeing, both from the schools perspective and from his perspective. And. The courts, and share some additional information and data with you and have an opportunity. For some questions. So it.
TEXT> Looks like I'm getting closer to be able to pull up the film. We the Claremont School District is one of six recipients of a McKinney Vento sub grant that is the McKinney Vento Act is the Homeless Children and Youth Act that pertains to school districts. And it's a federally a federally funded program, and it's also federally mandated. And so with with this, one of the other partner school districts invited a filmmaker to our state. This filmmaker is someone who's done this on the national scale and is recognized in the, in the, you know,  in the  I wanted to say homeless community, but the homeless advocacy community, or homeless awareness community for her work. And she came she worked in Claremont. You'll see that in the film and across the state of New Hampshire. And we'll talk about that a little bit. So let me just get this started. Hopefully you'll be able to hear. Her name is Diane Nylon, and she works and founded an organization called heroes. So it's w w w us dot U.S.. And we're going to hope that this works.
NEXT> Unidentified: Just want people to know.

[9170-214] Unidentified | Unidentified - voices in the screened homelessness film (filmmaker ASR | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: have to go to college and I have to get a job, and I have to save money for an apartment. Sources. The best. Thing. About school without. Friends and. The call from school to school. So I saw all the same friends and stuff.
TEXT> So it's definitely difficult with my grades, because every schools in a different point at where they're learning something.  Definitely helping them out here. So I know what I'm doing and I know where I'm at with things, and I know people, I know my teachers, and I'm not afraid to talk to them. I love this school, and I love the people in what kind of affects. Of bouncing around. And you're going. To get food. You don't want them thinking that, you know, every time something good seems to come. When did you get swept out from underneath you? It's a grown up problem. It's an adult issue. You guys need to focus on being kids. Keeping your grades up, having your friends playing. The difference. My daughter was three and she was going to start coming school out here, and it one point, it was the only normal thing that she had. And I said, you know what, if everything else is crazy, I just don't want her education to be affected by it. You know, I might be here in the really counting pennies under the couch to try to scrapbook behalf of the only gopher right now. But her education will not be affected.
NEXT> Unidentified: You work with kids. The biggest thing, and it's definitely helpful when your teachers known and they give you the time that you need, and they work with you through

[9170-216] Unidentified | Unidentified - voices in the screened homelessness film (filmmaker ASR | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: that. But students are there other classmates for the school to give me clothes or food and have it sitting in a bad name class after I just got called out from the office? It's kind of just like things like it's time to face.
TEXT> If you don't have any shoes, sweetie. Okay, cool. Let's go. Hang on. And I just did a complete multiple. I ended up working in time to the counselor, and that's there. And she found them down and said, you don't really need to doing because now she mentioned that these handling a lot of stress right now and they can be way people, which I know first hand because I have hopefully stressed. And when you're not trying to hold all that in, we'll find anybody that you can go to school and not. I could definitely affect someone like very negatively and have to understand that they're not just a bad kid that they have on everything. Now is a. Real process. Now you can only tell us. About your applications that you think two years later something would have come to fruition, but not always the case. It's there was a problem with homelessness, but I didn't know that it was the extent of I think people have this perspective on whether it's in general or youth. I think they have like find it's like, okay, well, you know, are just a bunch of kids who want to run on the streets and, you know, they're choosing not to be home. And, you know, their choosing to do what they want to do and things like that. And it's like, you know, it's more than that. It's a one word or not.
NEXT> Unidentified: Now there are some kids that, you know, not just me and Sam. There are some kids that, yeah, they're running from home. But there's a reason why they can't

[9170-218] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: Just because you dress like you're not seeing yourself like did not, doesn't mean that you're not struggling. So you just have to understand that there's like stereotyping. And just like putting a face to a name isn't just it's dumb because it's not true.
TEXT> And  so that, film certainly had some landmarks in our community that I'm guessing, you all recognized as you watched it. Some of those students, some of those families are ours. They live here,  some of them are not there from other parts of the state.  And I think it's a good illustration of some of the things that we as a school district, see on a regular basis and some of the the issues that we're faced with. But I'd like to give judges and an opportunity to talk about what he's seeing from  his bench in our community, and then we can talk a little bit more about what we're seeing in terms of statistics and things like that from the school side in our community. That makes sense.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thanks for. That is video.

[9170-220] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks for. That is video.
TEXT> I'd seen it before. I so think of the young kids that you saw in that video, and then think about the young girl moving from one house to another with everything that she owns in a trash bag, literally everything she owns in a trash bag. It is a it's a painful thing. And, something that goes on in this community on a regular, regular basis. And I think that it is hidden. And I think people like me for too long have  had a great, the great benefit of being able to go home to a nice house and turn a blind eye to it. And I don't think we can do that. Any longer. So I just want to talk about that and introduce at the end of the table over there. Most of you probably know, we have two people from TLC. Maggie Monroe Castle is the director. Melanie Williams is one of the most important people in our community. And if you don't know what she does, I encourage you to to get to know her, because I see her on a regular basis and there are at least a couple dozen kids every year who make it through school and end up having a life, because that organization has made the effort to make sure that the that they do. So I want to talk a little bit about childhood poverty.
NEXT> Jack: For those of us who have lived here a long time and have raised our kids together, and that is most of us. And. I think we reckon we we

[9170-221] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jack: at least a couple dozen kids every year who make it through school and end up having a life, because that organization has made the effort to make sure that the that they do. So I want to talk a little bit about childhood poverty.
TEXT> For those of us who have lived here a long time and have raised our kids together, and that is most of us. And. I think we reckon we  we recognize that Claremont has historically had one of New Hampshire's highest levels of childhood poverty. 30 years ago, we had the second highest level of childhood poverty. In the 30 years that have gone by, we have had two major economic upswing in this country to large, long lasting upswing. This community has spent  millions, if not tens of millions of dollars  on economic development. 30 years later, we have the second highest level of childhood poverty in the state. I suggest to you that there's a connection between the two. If 20% of our children are living in childhood poverty, if 20% of our children between the ages of zero and three don't have appropriate health care, don't have a parent who reads to them on a daily basis, don't have food that is adequate for their nutrition and don't have the care that they need. They end up going to school at 4 or 5 totally unprepared, and then we expect the school to miraculously turn that around and it cannot do it.
NEXT> Jack: So what we end up with, if you look at those children on that video, they are going to be the parents of the next homeless generation and a guarantee

[9170-222] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jack: don't have food that is adequate for their nutrition and don't have the care that they need. They end up going to school at 4 or 5 totally unprepared, and then we expect the school to miraculously turn that around and it cannot do it.
TEXT> So what we end up with, if you look at those children on that video, they are going to be the parents of the next homeless generation and a guarantee that 30 years from now, if we keep this course, Claremont will still have one of the highest childhood poverty rates in the state. Back in the mid 80s, when the companies that fueled our economy, the tan brands and the Foundry and Sullivan Machine and Cohn Blanchard over in Windsor, they were really pumping out lots of product and employing lots of people. And we still have the second highest childhood poverty rate in the state. So unless we unless we find a way as a community  to actually acknowledge that exists, that it exists and understand that absent changing that,  we will not grow as a community. And it is clear to me and  most of you, well, those of you who have lived here for a long time, no, I was involved with the city for many, many years. I saw the efforts that were made to attract business. I saw the, the efforts that were made to  try and start give new companies a start.
NEXT> Jack: And yet I cannot remember once at a council meeting, not once. Anyone saying. And, Mr. Manager, I'm sorry to say this. Where are you? There you are. Right. I

[9170-224] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jack: about that, but I really, you know, I, I accept the a large portion of the blame for not recognizing the significance and the seriousness of little kids who don't have enough to eat, kids who have never had anyone read a book to them.
TEXT> And it's it takes its toll. It is it is a dehumanizing thing, as those little kids said, to grow up knowing when you go to school, you've got to be one of the kids that gets a backpack because no one can provide you with a backpack. We measure job growth. We  we measure. You can go online and measure wages. You can go online and  see what our taxes are and how much aid we get from the state and from the federal, from the federal government. But it is really difficult to see on the ground the impact that kids from 0 to 3 not having an appropriate home, the impact that that has on all of us  as a society. We're not alone. And I don't mean to say that we're alone because it is sadly, the, the vein of the existence of old mill towns in many, many ways. And we have a we have a tendency and I was guilty of this to a lot of times we blame the poor people. We blame poor for poor people for being poor.
NEXT> Jack: We and blaming poor people for their own poverty doesn't get us anywhere. We're not better than they are. Any one of us could have ended up in a situation

[9170-225] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jack: vein of the existence of old mill towns in many, many ways. And we have a we have a tendency and I was guilty of this to a lot of times we blame the poor people. We blame poor for poor people for being poor.
TEXT> We and blaming poor people for their own poverty doesn't get us anywhere. We're not better than they are. Any one of us could have ended up in a situation where you're in front of me, losing your home or losing your apartment, and I cringe when I know that I have to sign an eviction for a young mother who is going to be  homeless with three young children. So I want to concentrate on the kids. I really think that that's the important part. Forget about saying, well, why can't the parents do this? Or why isn't why isn't dad doing that? You have to concentrate on the kids and one way of doing that, and there are plenty. But one way of doing that is something that TLC has been doing for a long time, on a very small basis, that I think expanded into the home of every poor or every every mother to be who is under the poverty line, young family that is under the poverty line, and that is to have someone in that house on a regular basis, making sure that mom's
NEXT> Jack: health as she's pregnant is addressed, that the children's health and an ongoing basis is addressed, that they have books to read in, somebody to read to them. This is

[9170-226] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jack: think expanded into the home of every poor or every every mother to be who is under the poverty line, young family that is under the poverty line, and that is to have someone in that house on a regular basis, making sure that mom's
TEXT> health as she's pregnant is addressed, that the children's health and an ongoing basis  is addressed, that they have books to read in, somebody to read to them. This is the stuff that they do. I'm pointing at TLC with families in my court. When I'm able to get TLC involved. And this, this, this is graduation season. And I was invited to a half dozen graduations, both high school and college, from kids that were homeless,  were born into abject poverty that they worked with, and some other programs worked with that had their lives turned around. So it's possible, but it if it's possible for a small portion, it's it's possible for a larger group. And if we can if we can make a change for that larger group, believe me,  ten years from now,  in 20 years from now, we're not going to be sitting around talking about the the impact homelessness has on the schools and the impact the childhood poverty has on all of us. I sent some information out several months ago to to many of you.
NEXT> Jack: There's a Washington Post article that's described a program that is in place in many areas, but this particular one in Appalachia, the poorest area in Appalachia, called a nurse

[9170-229] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: to the table and thinking about what that New Hampshire housing wage is, and how do we address poverty from from that perspective, when we think about the free and reduced lunch rates in our community, our district wide rate tends to average around 50%,
TEXT> bluff elementary, 70%. This is from March. That's the most recent data I have. Claremont Middle School 49% desired, 59% Maple, 54% Stevens High School 40%. If we look at Stevens High School at 40%, and we know that we have Bluff Elementary School at 70%, people don't just randomly become less, impoverished as the kids get older. We just have an issue where once kids get into middle school, in the high school, the stigma becomes more of a reality and they don't fill out the paperwork. They don't want to be identified in any way as being recognized as in poverty. So the rates decline.  I, I'm optimistic that with the school board's adoption of a new food service vendor last night, not as much of the vendor, but the fact that we will have a point of sale, system in place that allows for greater anonymity for our students, that we will have a greater chance to have those students who need that support, get that support without any sort of stigma attached to it. When we think about this year's 20 1617, number of students who are identified as homeless were at 156. We have about 1753 students in our school district, and 156 of them were identified as homeless. This number is lower than last year. In years past,  this number is lower, primarily because in December of 2016, December 10th to be exact, and McKinney Vento law changed.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So formerly, students who are awaiting foster care were identified as homeless. Because they are in transition, they're lacking fixed, regular and adequate nighttime presence if they are to the

[9170-230] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: about 1753 students in our school district, and 156 of them were identified as homeless. This number is lower than last year. In years past, this number is lower, primarily because in December of 2016, December 10th to be exact, and McKinney Vento law changed.
TEXT> So formerly, students who are awaiting foster care were identified as homeless. Because they are in transition, they're lacking fixed, regular and adequate nighttime presence if they are to the level where they are awaiting foster care, it's because Jack has seen them, has seen them, and they are looking for a placement that is more appropriate than the placement in which they were living. So those students are no longer identified in that number. It's a different categorization. It's  a different categorical heading for those students now. So they're not included. And we were still at 156 kids. Yes.
NEXT> Unidentified: And this is.

[9170-232] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: And this is.
TEXT> Just include, a portion of that. But in any given time in its primarily Claremont when I talked about Sullivan County, but,  we have about 140 guardianships established in any given time. And that means that somewhere between 150 and 250 children, young children are being raised by someone who's not their parent. And it is usually a grandparent who can't afford to raise the children  or an aunt or uncle. So that statistic gets skewed a little bit because those kids, while they have a place to live. They are not living with a parent and they are living a spartan lifestyle. And if you  looked at, the numbers of guardianships, of course they have risen substantially because of the opioid crisis and it's going to continue to rise. But those kids  often end up going to a district that's maybe outside of this district. So they're changing schools mid-year, or they're changing the local schools that I know that our school system really does go out of their way to make sure that there's some kind of continuity in a child's life.  But the thought that this community of 13,000 people could have several hundred children living in an out of home placement is frightening to me.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we've had more parental deaths this year than we've had. In the past. Since you mentioned the opioid epidemic, and that is definitely having an impact on the schools.

[9170-234] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: or guardian, but they are still with a family member that doesn't always come through to us as a data point. So it's challenging for us to track or those who are in foster care because we had a mid-year transition with that, legal categorization.
TEXT> That's a challenge for us to track as well. So, those types of, of data points, there's no systematic process for tracking that across our district or the state. So it's much more you have to sort of go by hand, go through all of our kids, try to figure out based on other information points and other connections we have, who does,  who's categorize that way  just to help, with a better understanding of what our kids are dealing. Same thing with the number of students sent to placement via the court, the schools, we have a great working relationship with the court and other agencies, but there's not always a clear communication channel so that everyone is on the same page. And often there's some confidentiality things that need to be upheld as well. And so if there is a student who's placed, via the court, we don't always know that. And sometimes we're very good reason we don't know that. So those aren't things that we can always track cleanly,  those who have been placed in mental health facilities. I know we have had a number of our children this year be placed in mental health facilities for extended periods of time.  But again, that's not something that we have historically tracked. It's something that we want to track and need to track, because I think it helps paint a clear picture for everyone. But we we don't have this historical  data on that. You.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[9170-236] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> Everybody knows this. But for my own. Faction and maybe Melanie or Maggie, you can jump in here. The number of children that end up, needing an IEP, or, a separate plan that grow up or that were exposed to childhood poverty or domestic violence. Those rates are really stunning and shocking, and it's something that you end up dealing with at your level when a child enters school. But that that order, that map was already written long before you got them. So that I think that connection is so important to always keep in mind that if we're not reaching those children or the pregnant mothers and those children during that very formative, important period, then it's too late. It's too late.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Maggie's organization was able to show a film a few. Oh, gosh, it might have. Even been like a. Month or two ago now called resilience. And it was really

[9170-238] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: whether it is, you know, the, mental health, drug abuse, parents who are divorced, that brain that has experienced trauma is literally wired differently than a brain that is not experienced trauma. One of the things that we are hoping to be able to. Do.
TEXT> Working within the regulations around administering surveys, is to understand how many of our students, at least at the middle school and high school, have experienced adverse childhood experiences. And what does that look like? And not to pinpoint specific children, but to get a better understanding of what is our student population in our schools that have experienced levels of trauma, that really require us to respond differently for them to be successful? 50% of our fifth graders did not, start with us. So when we talk about the kids in this film who have been moving around to multiple different schools, half half of our fifth graders did not start with us. And so when we think about the education that we can provide them, it's fabulous. But half of them didn't start with us and haven't been privy to that education along the way. And all of these things are tied back to the idea. Not all of them. Thinking about research. They're obviously kids who have moved to us because of very positive reasons. You know, families are relocated or things like that for work. But those who have not, those who have experienced trauma, those who have experienced homelessness, those of experienced mental health issues and drug issues and things of that nature, that has a negative impact when we look at our students.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I did the data dive a couple of years ago now, so I haven't looked at it in the last year or two. Our identified population, those with an IEP

[9170-239] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: things like that for work. But those who have not, those who have experienced trauma, those who have experienced homelessness, those of experienced mental health issues and drug issues and things of that nature, that has a negative impact when we look at our students.
TEXT> I did the data dive a couple of years ago now, so I haven't looked at it in the last year or two. Our identified population, those with an IEP and an Individualized education plan, also known as special education, that rate for our district runs about 25%. It's about double the state average. When I compared the number of those students who were also in the poverty cohort or subgroup, if you will. There was about a 17% overlap when you're looking at at the time it was kneecap data. So those in grades three through eight, it's not as big of an overlap as you would expect it to be necessarily. So. So it just becomes another head of the multi-headed monster of what we're dealing with from the schools perspective. But I think what judge  is alluding to and what  Megan and Melanie do in their work is how can we target the kids before they're even more? How can we target those moms who are pregnant and help them get better prenatal care, better education about how to support their kids? How can we target our birth to five kids when we really have 80? I think it's 80% of the brain is formed by age three. Something a really large percentage of the brain is formed by age three.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I believe it's 80 or 85%. So how do we support those kids in the 0 to 3 range to better position them for later in life? So you don't

[9170-240] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: about how to support their kids? How can we target our birth to five kids when we really have 80? I think it's 80% of the brain is formed by age three. Something a really large percentage of the brain is formed by age three.
TEXT> I believe it's 80 or 85%. So how do we support those kids in the 0 to 3 range to better position them for later in life? So you don't you can break that generational poverty cycle  because it is a cycle. We see the same families. Judge has been doing this a long time. There's others of you in this room who have been doing this for a long time. Whatever your work is. And you see now the the grandchildren of the parents you saw many moons ago  who are having similar issues because it's a cyclical process. And so when we think about how do we change it for the future and how do we how do we shift that trajectory? We need to think about what are we doing with those kids, because that's where we have the greatest impact, and that's where we can have the greatest success. We are fortunate as a school district to be able to work with organizations like Turning Points Network and like TLC, and partnering on different initiatives. We have our one for all space, which is our, our.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We have an early childhood fit coordinator. They are targeted our homeless families 0 to 5. And we have seen tremendous success with that so far. But there's a lot

[9170-241] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: that's where we can have the greatest success. We are fortunate as a school district to be able to work with organizations like Turning Points Network and like TLC, and partnering on different initiatives. We have our one for all space, which is our, our.
TEXT> We have an early childhood fit coordinator. They are targeted our homeless families 0 to 5. And we have seen tremendous success with that so far.  But there's a lot more that we could be doing, I think as a community, if we could come together as a community and talk about what we could collectively do. It's nice that we had the green Dot presentation first and this presentation second, because now I can leverage what you learned there. Nobody in this room has to do anything miraculous. We all just have to do some small thing, our little part, to change the culture in our community around these issues and around  how we can support, support our children, because our children are what are going to help us break these cycles and have us come out on the other side with a with a different outcome than what we've seen for the last 30, 40, 50 years.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And if I could just say one thing, when we talk about the children that we're discussing today, these children have a needs. But it's not just we can't turn

[9170-242] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: we can support, support our children, because our children are what are going to help us break these cycles and have us come out on the other side with a with a different outcome than what we've seen for the last 30, 40, 50 years.
TEXT> And if I could just say one thing, when we talk about the children that we're discussing today, these children have a needs. But it's not just we can't turn our back on them because if we turn our back on them,  we turn our back on all our children. Because in a public school setting, these children with their needs and our obligation to address those needs, they also have an effect on their classmates and they are entitled to they are entitled to at least restrictive environment. So I've been we've talked about adverse childhood experiences through TLC turning points. But now it's going to be you talk about judge childhood poverty. We also have to keep on our plate adverse childhood experiences. And we when we develop the budget, we're going to have to break from the norm  because our clientele need that adjustment and how we spend our funds.
NEXT> Unidentified: I would. Like to say something. I would. Like to say thank you, judge, for coming out here and breaking the ice, so to speak. I am a grandparent. Raising

[9170-252] Unidentified | Unidentified - woman on the school board side (refers to 'we talked la | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: understand each individual person and even opening a space so that everybody can just come and talk and and tell their stories and, and say, you know, I want to make it. I want, I want to be somewhere in my life. That was me.
TEXT> And that's why I do what I do. I volunteer for all the things I volunteer for because of having to need services. It's not easy to go ask for a scholarship or to be told that I can't have an IEP for my grandson because he's too smart. Even though we deal with huge behavioral issues. So there's there's lots of things encounters. However, there's me, I've made it, I'm doing okay, and I'm surviving. So I believe that if we all take the time to get to know other people in our community and understand them, then we will be able to somehow in the green dot way or however, help, whether it's a listening ear someday, or a food card or a gas car, it doesn't matter. It's you've got to start by listening to the people who are in it, not necessarily who can fix it at the moment, but who are in it, so that you can start understanding those barriers because you can't see those barriers. If you're on the outside, you need to understand the inside of the the belly of it. Several months ago, there was an. Article. In the. Local paper. And it was. About. The children in our school system and how many of the children. Were.
NEXT> Unidentified: In poverty level. And I was absolutely shocked. I had no idea. And, that's my fault that I didn't know. But being the person that I am, I right away

[9170-256] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: I don't know. Does the school district have a way to connect people once you identify them outside of all? For one correctly, I always get one for all. So if that outside of that, is there a way to direct people to other resources?
TEXT> We do our. I don't know that it's always enough. I guess. We work hard. We have, a few staff members who are dedicated specifically  to helping our neediest populations. But some times the issues are so insurmountable that the staff that we have in place just isn't enough to address everybody's needs. And,  I mean, we're not alone in that. But we we do. And I think that one of the challenges once, once we have the kids in school, once they hit that magic kindergarten age and they're in our sights, there's a lot more that we can do for them. It's those children who are before school age  that we we can't always connect with because we don't know that they exist. If they happen to be a younger sibling, then we can we can connect with them if they happen to be attending, you know, a pediatrician, well, visit and the pediatrician identifies them as needing additional services. And, you know, we pick them up for special education at age three  as a school system. But there's very few mechanisms for us as a school system to support those children ages 0 to 5.  Basically, if they don't have an older sibling or some other connection with the school system. And so that's the population I. I guess I most worry about because I know that there's the, the, the greatest impact can happen for that 0 to 5 population.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And they're the ones that we as a school system. Don't. Always know about or can't identify.

[9170-264] Melanie Williams | Staff member, TLC (named by the judge [464]; recognized 'Melanie' [606 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: Melanie, you wanted to say something? Yeah, I.
TEXT> Wanted to say that I. I think we can change. I think that there is hope. And sometimes, like you were saying, Michel, just having one person believe in you, you know that we are seeing generations of, you know, poverty or trauma and and somebody from our agency, you could meet the other staff to they go in and they connect with people. And so it is about the kids. But it starts with the parents. And if we can connect with the parents and make help them to see how important their role is and how important it is to have stable housing, how important it is to read to them every day, how important it is to have you know, the formula that they need, and to help them figure out how to make those things happen and have those things available, and to have that attachment with their child that fuels them to keep going and to make sure they have formula and to make sure that they can pay the rent, because that's where it comes from.
NEXT> Melanie Williams: Like, we could help and give these give supports, which we should do concrete support sometimes. But really what fuels maintaining that is the attachment. And that's what we're focused

[9170-265] Melanie Williams | Staff member, TLC (named by the judge [464]; recognized 'Melanie' [606 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Melanie Williams: those things happen and have those things available, and to have that attachment with their child that fuels them to keep going and to make sure they have formula and to make sure that they can pay the rent, because that's where it comes from.
TEXT> Like, we could help and give these give supports, which we should do concrete support sometimes. But really what fuels maintaining that is the attachment. And that's what we're focused on. And if we could get in to every home and talk about attachment and how important that is in the first three, five years, that would be amazing. You know, because I did some statistics before I came here, which I'm not really good at, but I did a little bit. And so 78% of the families that we're serving right now are struggling with finances in some way. And and so we would like to serve everyone, not just people who are struggling financially, but we are really happy that we're in those homes where people are struggling financially because we're there to say, we believe in you, you can do this, it can be different and you can be successful. And here's how you know, and here's how you can take care of your baby in a healthy way. And when you respond to them crying, that tells them that the world is safe, that you're safe and and what what difference would that make if our kids grew up knowing that they were secure and safe in their home, and then in our community as well?
NEXT> Melanie Williams: So I have hope is what I wanted to say, and I apologize. I have to leave because I thought we were only going to 845, so my sitter ends

[9171-9] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Opposed? And I will abstain. I missed that meeting. Superintendents report. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. I. It's always nice to receive awards. And  I received an award. I did not receive an award. Stevens High School received an award from the Department of Health and Human Services. The New Hampshire immunization program elected to recognize Stevens High School for achieving a high student immunization coverage for 1617. Immunizations remain one of the most effective public health interventions to prevent  infectious diseases. This certificate demonstrates Stevens High school accomplishments in ensuring students are up to date with required school immunization. And I'm going to present this to Pat Berry. It's not very colorful, but it's a. Stevens High School received a letter grade of A. Even though we're standards based grading, it's still important that  we're we're taking care of our children. And the other thing I'd like to share with you. I did send you all  this afternoon, as well as  the administration,  an article dated June 9th. School suspensions, test scores and lead poisoning. And the good news is, is that we have a policy and we're increasing the awareness of lead poisoning. But,  recently the school board meeting, we had a discussion of adverse childhood experiences and the behavior of certain children because of the trauma.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But clearly, there is evidence that an increased elevation of lead may also have an impact on a child's behavior. There are many variables, of course, so it's not one

[9171-10] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: lead poisoning. And the good news is, is that we have a policy and we're increasing the awareness of lead poisoning. But, recently the school board meeting, we had a discussion of adverse childhood experiences and the behavior of certain children because of the trauma.
TEXT> But clearly, there is evidence that  an increased elevation of lead may also have an impact on a child's behavior.  There are many variables, of course, so it's not one size fits all. But,  as I said in the email, we have work to do. But the good news is we're talking we're talking about it  and working with  different agencies. I received the phone call from a  a pediatrician that happened to be in Vermont, where a Claremont parent takes her children, and the pediatrician was asking about our policy and to be sure that they're in compliance. So the word is getting out and the word getting out, meaning that we hope to make the community more aware and to enhance our,  our, our wellness of our children. And last on that same point,  tomorrow, Gail Gittins, who made the presentation to all of you,  actually to the city council and the school board last fall,  she's going to be meeting with Pat Berry and myself and Joel Schneider, director of our tech center, in talking about some federal funding that may help with additional education for students who will enter into the trades, because entering into the trades, there is exposure to lead.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So that is we continue we continue down this pathway. And since the last board meeting, it's been a whirlwind, but we've the school year has ended and the administration

[9171-17] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: All right. I guess we'll move on to citizens comments for citizens. Comments. We'll close citizens comments and move to discussion items, which is our academic achievement goals. Student measured growth in reading, math and writing.
TEXT> This  is the the end of our first  2016 2017 year where we have been,  focusing on, on on academic achievement, meaning  the growth that our students demonstrate in reading and in mathematics. Different levels, different schools. Different.  The elementary is in one place. The middle school and high school are in another place, because we all didn't come out of the gate at the same time with with this initiative. But,  in the near future, especially next year, there will be uniform presentations regarding  our students growth  as well as regarding how we are responding to that growth. Very, very pleased with the presentation I made to the faculty.  On the 14th of June, showing the the measured growth in reading and mathematics at our three elementary schools.  Quite, quite impressive. I think I know there's also growth going on at our  middle and high school, but we don't we're not in a place to present that as we would in the elementary. But tonight there will be a discussion of whether across district regarding  academic achievement goals. And remember this is not a one year goal. This is a multi year goal.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Attendance in Stevens High School, those going on to post-high school experiences. Educationally that's a multi year goal. The goal is to increase that percentage. And the goal is to

[9171-18] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: don't we're not in a place to present that as we would in the elementary. But tonight there will be a discussion of whether across district regarding academic achievement goals. And remember this is not a one year goal. This is a multi year goal.
TEXT> Attendance in Stevens High School, those going on to post-high school experiences. Educationally  that's a multi year goal. The goal is to increase that percentage.  And the goal is to over time to see an increase in the in the measurable growth of our students elementary, middle and high school. And to report out publicly and also the report out publicly if it's not going well, if it's not going well, that's nothing to be ashamed about. If we have a response and a plan to address it. What's wrong is if it's not going well and we don't discuss it, discussing it isn't the shame of blame, as you've heard me say it, to be honest about what's going on and plan accordingly. So I welcome my administrative colleagues who are just beyond eager to come forth and. Soccer soccer practice. Well, I'm very pleased to tell you in the community that the assistant superintendent has their priorities correct, and that is, take care of my children first, and the board will wait. And you know what? We'll wait just a few minutes as Corey does what any good parent does. So that being said, perhaps we could jump right down to the handbook you did receive last week.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Last Friday, I believe it was a copy of electronic copy of the Claremont Middle School 20 1718 Handbook and a cover sheet showing where the changes are. And Paula

[9171-21] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> So yes, you received,  you should have received a copy  with the anticipated revisions. We are a little earlier than the other schools because we have our handbook  put inside of our student planners. So that's why it has to be in,  actually by the 27th of June. So that's why I'm presenting a little earlier than other people. And I think we had I brought a copy last year, and you were able to see that I probably should have brought a copy this year for the new people.  So  as you could see on the revision page, there are not a lot of changes.  We,  Of course, the welcome letter will be updated. The personnel saw six personnel. Pages will be updated. Our staff page will be updated. And we also have a cover contest. So our sixth graders participate in,  this contest. And so whoever wins  their piece of artwork becomes our cover. So I updated who that student is this year.  And so just stop me if you have any questions, okay? About anything that I'm saying.
NEXT> Paula Fitzgerald: Page two. Late to school. We reworded that a little bit. If students are not in their advisory by 745, then they are considered tardy. If you are tardy without

[9171-54] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Just a little sweaty.
TEXT> So as long as our tech folks,  or on top of their game, this will work perfectly without any glitches, and we'll be able to roll. I guess they are. So it's as it's coming up, this is to recap kind of where we've been this year with our student data. So in the mid year,  it actually ended up being a little bit more like March. We presented the I already data to you. This is our internal assessment of our students. So it's not the state assessment accountability measure but our internal process. We used to use the NWA assessment map. And now we have switched to I ready. And this was our first year for that implementation. With this we do beginning of the year mid-year and end of year. And so what we'd like to show you tonight is the growth of students from beginning of the year to end of year. Some of these slides you literally have seen before because they were the midyear slides. But I just want to recap some of that information. So you  are grounded in the same understanding across the board.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'd like you to do a.

[9171-57] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> So we have achieved goals that we've been working on this year. And you've been made privy to these goals. They've been discussed at various lengths at various times.  But our our focus has been on growth. So how far are we moving students from the moment we receive them to the moment that they leave us? Not all of our students come to us proficient. Not all of our students leave us proficient. So we're not necessarily yet talking about proficiency if they've met that,  that end,  goal of how much they know. But we're, we're focused more on how much have we impacted them while they're with us and how much have they grown. So our goals  are for math and reading vary by level. These were set by the administrative team.  And for the first year,  this is actually a five year plan. And so,  we have met some of these in the first year. And we'll talk about that a little bit more in a moment. But for math, we had a goal of 70% of our students would meet their growth target for the year. In grades K through five. So again, that's not 70% of our students necessarily  on grade level or proficient, but they have met the target growth for that year.  Reading 80% of our kids in grades K through five. And you'll see up here that the percentages vary a little bit by grade level.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: With the assessment. There is expected growth by grade level. And so that's how we set those goals. Okay. So you'll see up here on the screen and it will

[9171-62] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Grade level.
TEXT> The first column is the number of kids at the mid-year who are meeting the mid-year target and the number of kids at the mid-year  and winter who were meeting the end of year target. So the middle column is the number of students in January when we tested them, who are already meeting that end of year growth target. And then the right hand column up here is the number of students, the percentage of students who have met that growth target by the end of the year. So you'll notice that in grades one and two, we have already exceeded our five year goal of 7,070% of our students meeting the end of year growth target. Grades 352%, grade 462%, and grade 552%. These percentages are across all three elementary schools. It's aggregated data. They're pulled together. So that's looking at our entire grade three, not a grade three just at one particular school okay. Excuse me. That was reading. This is math. No, this is math in grade six, seven and eight. Sorry, I got confused when I'm not running my own cooker. So again, the first is the mid-year. The middle is where they were at in the winter. How many students are meeting the end of year target in the winter when we tested, and the right hand column is the percentage of students meeting the end of year target in the spring. So,
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Typically anywhere in the, the high 30s to mid 40s, Pat is going to be able to speak a little or I will speak a little to the high school

[9171-63] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: middle is where they were at in the winter. How many students are meeting the end of year target in the winter when we tested, and the right hand column is the percentage of students meeting the end of year target in the spring. So,
TEXT> Typically anywhere in the, the high 30s to mid 40s, Pat is going to be able to speak a little or I will speak a little to the high school and why that might look a little different in grades nine and ten than other grade levels.  But that's our end of year growth for math,  and reading will be next K-5. One through five. Excuse me. So 67%, 58%, 52%, 54% and 56% of our kids,  meeting that end of year target for spring and grades six through ten  a little stronger overall in reading for grades six through ten than math.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[9171-65] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So if we look at those students so this now we're shifting more toward proficiency again away from growth a little bit more toward proficiency. So how many of our kids are on or above grade level. They're either at grade level right where they need to be or they're slightly above. This is mass. So the light blue is the fall and the dark blue is the spring. So that's the growth from fall to spring of the number of students who are on or above grade level, grades one through five. So you see some pretty significant jumps there. In first grade we started the fall, only 13% of our kids were on grade level. We ended this year with 72% of our kids on grade level.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay, so.

[9171-67] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Okay, so.
TEXT> Grade six, seven and eight again, we saw growth in every grade level there. And grades nine and ten. And then moving forward we'll look at reading. So grade one we started the year with 14% of our students on grade level. We ended the year with 67% of our students on grade level. So dark blue is on or above grade level. The and the spring. The light blue is the fall. It's great. Six, seven and eight.  And then we'll look at nine and ten.
NEXT> Unidentified: Go ahead.

[9171-69] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Go ahead.
TEXT> I am going to invite the principals up to talk if they choose to,  about the data at their level.  And so I want to sort of set the stage for that. This was our first year of implementation with I ready, we really set out this year to just be able to ensure that all testing windows were completed in that time, that the kids became familiar with the testing structure,  that the teachers could get familiar with the resources and understand how to apply and use those resources in their classroom. And so, we we knew that this was a  first year of implementation for us.  And there's things that we know we want to change in our implementation for next year as a result of the learning that occurred this year. So I'd like our principles to talk a little bit about that. Just 2 or 3 minutes if you'd like. Do you want to start Dan.
NEXT> Dan: There are a ton of things that we're learning right now along with the kids. One of the expectations for I ready is that children access it 45 minutes a

[9171-70] Dan | Elementary school principal, apparently Maple Avenue per [174] (first  | 2017-06-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: want to change in our implementation for next year as a result of the learning that occurred this year. So I'd like our principles to talk a little bit about that. Just 2 or 3 minutes if you'd like. Do you want to start Dan.
TEXT> There are a ton of things that we're learning right now  along with the kids. One of the expectations for I ready is that children access it 45 minutes a week in reading and in math. So 90 minutes a week, there's an expectation that they are working with this tool.  I know that in our first year implementation, we really struggled to hit that target. That's a pretty big cultural change for us  when we have people who already are running on a hamster wheel all day and now say, kind of like you have 90 minutes less. And so we're doing is we have a we have a big cultural gap of showing our teachers what this tool and resource can do,  as well as how it can complement and match what they're doing instructional. So that's one of the things that we're going to be exploring next year. The other thing is that, we have all of this data is like the first look data where we're getting really ready to go deeper with this. Some of the initial findings of just kind of digging a little deeper on the reading side, because those numbers were concerning to us, as we see some real gaps in  phonics,  at the elementary level.
NEXT> Dan: And that's going up through, all the way up through our fifth graders. And so now what we're doing is we're kind of doubling back, looking at our reading program,

[9171-75] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Frank' [47], [410], [416]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: to absorb all that you're throwing at them. So if there's a goal, I think it would be to try to find those older kids. And as you look through the data and they get to the high school, obviously that window continues to close.
TEXT> When you get into ninth and 10th, it's even a smaller gap. So I think from my point of view, the gap the  challenge becomes finding those ways to address the learning gaps and those kids, when it really does take some creativity and things that maybe are a little bit different than we've done in the past, that don't work with the younger kids because of the younger kids capacity. Sure.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So I think there's a couple of things to keep in mind. One is, at age nine, the brain chart starts shedding. And basically I think it's neurons. And I'm

[9171-88] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; answers roll as 'Brian Rath' [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Dan: It's exciting stuff. But and it's just generating lots more questions. But they're they're really good questions. Right. Questions we should be spending time on.
TEXT> It's interesting. You know, my kids came home when they  found out about some of their scores and stuff. And,  it seems like some of the kids are excited about it. And they were talking about some of the other kids that had raised their points over a hundred points. And they're just kids that.  Oh, it's just neat that they're they're taking an interest in it and they understand what it's about. And it's sort of like almost like a competition to see what they can do.
NEXT> Dan: Well, we described it as a as a runners runner's marathon. When you see all those people at the start of that race, they're all starting with their finger on

[9171-92] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Sure.
TEXT> So for the purpose of reporting here, we're looking more holistically. So overall, in all of the strands of reading, what is the average growth overall for for all of our students?  We have the ability and Dan alluded to this earlier to break it down by the individual child and even further to look at how are they performing in phonics, phonemic awareness in the different comprehension. And so at the building level and at the grade level, they are looking and diving into the data with that level of detail. For this purpose, you would have been sleeping by now had I had I shared that level of detail. So when I were talking about the numbers up here, it's about what percentage of our kids,  are making the the growth that we need them to be making to get them to achieve where we need them to achieve. And that's what we're talking about, because that's what's.
NEXT> Dan: We haven't had a chance to do. The deep dive, the deep.

[9171-157] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Paula Fitzgerald: so they know exactly what to look for active proctoring as they're walking around, so that we don't have any YouTubers who are listening to their music while taking the test, because it made us question how many other students were able to do this.
TEXT> And  and so then it impacts the validity of our scores. So that was one of the the areas test administration, also increasing the conversations that we're having with our students about why they're taking the test. We've done that. I think we can do a better job of informing them why they are taking this test. And what do these scores really mean for them? The other area is the use of the online instructional component. One of the things that we didn't realize that the outset, and as we really started to, to get our feet wet, was that  the  online instructional component  caps out at eighth grade. So if you have students who are above that eighth grade level, it's not really useful for them. So that was another  Oh we have to rethink this a little bit. So going forward next year we're looking at  are really our neediest kids being on that online component. The kids who are on grade level, some of them may need meat, may need it to some degree. Our kids who are above grade level won't need it.
NEXT> Paula Fitzgerald: We need to do other things for them. So that in turn ties into our wind block, which is our what I need block. So, we are looking at looking

[9171-162] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: In one.
TEXT> Sitting in one sitting. But we also had some technology issues because we had all of the kids on it  or not. About half of the kids on it at one time. So we're working through those. We're increasing the number of Chromebooks that we have, so we're hoping that that will also help. But again, because it was new and this was our first go at it, I think we can improve. I think the teachers are learning, how to use that online component a little more. They can go in, they can assign certain lessons. In the beginning, we we weren't  well versed in how to do that. But the teachers are  becoming better at that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay.

[9171-178] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: have more training that we will be doing and more time allotted to better understand what all of these reports are, what they mean, how to use it in your classroom, how to use it to free up other time that you were previously spending.
TEXT> And I have heard that from teachers already this year,  that they're now not spending as much time creating all of these other lesson plans for their instructional subgroups and things of that nature.  I, I can't speak to the individual levels the same way that the principals would. But I get I'm guessing you'll get sort of a mixed bag of responses of where their comfort level is right now. Because it's a new product.  It's, in my opinion, better than some of those other products where you can select and determine. We did some pretty extensive research before we chose this particular product, looked at many,  established a selection criteria ahead of time. We wanted something that was better for parents, more easily understood. We wanted something that gave teachers more information to use immediately, not this higher level information that doesn't really help them. Tomorrow we wanted something that could help them immediately and help them better prepare for their students. And so this will do all of that. But we're going to need some time to get to a place where we have the the majority of our folks come for in doing that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[9171-188] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: And I know it's I don't really expect really an answer because it's I know it's going to take a it's going to take what you say, you know, 3 or 4 years.
TEXT> But we're all excited and we want to see results. Right? I think that's kind of what you're saying too. So we we all want to see our kids doing better. So so I get that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Michelle, you got a question?

[9171-193] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [172], [293], [43 | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Fall with it, right?
TEXT> But I mean, as far as like getting it out to the community, I feel like maybe because the children don't understand the testing, you know, and you're saying, how can we maybe we need to be a little bit more public, bring it out, back out on the board and say, this is I ready again and and describe it.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Super fast. I just wanted to give a plug. My kids love it. Just so you know. And I as a parent love it. I love getting the information. It's

[9171-225] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (referred to as 'Pat' [101], [323]; pre | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Oh we're going to talk.
TEXT> Two minutes. Good evening. So basically the you saw the numbers at the ninth and 10th grade kind of flatlined in both math and reading. You know, the things that you have to report to you tonight are a lot like what I reported to you in the winter. What we did that was different is is by nature how we're set up at the high school. So we we actually had three times as many of our students in ninth and 10th grade in math classes in the fall, and three times more students taking their English classes in the spring. It's just the way the schedule laid out our ninth and 10th graders. So we made the decision to get a baseline to do all ninth and 10th graders all three sessions. So it does. There's no way to to segue out, right? Who is in a math class in the fall and what that looked like versus so you're.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Not with I ready with other stuff.

[9171-228] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (referred to as 'Pat' [101], [323]; pre | 2017-06-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: our ninth and 10th graders alphabetically in sections to the library where they took their tests, and they were proctored by non math and Ela personnel. They were they were proctored by different staff. Something we will do differently next year is a only test.
TEXT> The students in math and English when they're in their math and English classes, beginning and after, to get a more specific focus on on what their actual growth is. And so we're not looking at the whole group, and we will do it in the classroom, and the proctors will be their English and their math teachers. So this year it has been removed from the classroom, removed from the curriculum and removed from the teacher. We want to make the teachers a part of this so that they're working with their students. They know their students better. We'll see what a difference in the venue  makes for these students, and what different numbers we see when it's just a pre and post within that semester and not a year long,  number. That's that's two things that we've learned. And then what we really want to look at is what role does this play in our intervention system. How can we better use it in flex? How can  we plan flex in a way in which we are able to take out students who show a need for remediation by their I ready scores and just work with them? And who's going to do that work?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Because right now flexes for every single subject that a student has is only four days a week. It's 40 minutes a day. So if that's students really showing a

