[10993-68] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Petrin: From your opinion.
TEXT> When we talk about  the most current medical or recommendations, would you, would you suggest or consider that the the Children's Hospital at Dartmouth-Hitchcock, the recommendations that they came up with would be sufficient in meeting that requirement?
NEXT> Matt Upton: I think it's for the board to, to kind of way, this is part of that discretionary function that you have is the way the various, recommendations and to sign

[10993-90] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: like a tax preparation sheet or something. But this is this. This sheet is definitely a assistant superintendent. McGowan's a friend here, the administrative toolkit. And she's the point person for the district for all of communicating between the Department of Health and the state.
TEXT> Every case that we have of a student go going home is monitored. And it really is quite an inefficient system that has been set up by the state. And those are  those are the models that we use. All this stuff is online. And I wanted to put it out there to just so that, you know, we are we have to follow protocols and things like that. All right. This is data specific data that shows some of the students  who have been sent home and staff members that have been sent home for school. So this is, and I wanted to show the difference in two days. And again, the bottom bar that that is a yellow or orange, whichever color you have is the aggregate number. So some columns don't change. That's the number of students that are, that are in  the the room. But then you see how many are sent home and you can see the variation of that and the change in the numbers. And one thing that's very interesting and it's not a mistake, it  I want to stress that with the folks at home is it's really hard to know the percentage.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: All we really know is the percentage of negative tests that come back. And there's always about three quarters to, to 60% of tests that are out there all the

[10993-95] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Heather Whitney: Down below it says 16.
TEXT> That's because, when I had a conversation with the nurses, I wanted to make sure they were. The data is there. They're telling me who's going home on a specific day. And, the the Disney nurse misunderstood what I said. And so some of what she did is, so if a child was out for two days, she marked him on the sheet out for two days. But all I wanted him was on that initial day. So this is the kids per day that are sent home. So it's not community cumulative. Thank you.  Well no it's not because it's one day. So so when you see like they may have one kid sent home on Monday and that kids out for ten days on Tuesday, they're not reporting that kid again. That's right. It's a new kid. So if you see for that does not include that other kid. So it was five kids total sent home in those two days.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Or any questions on on that data. We that that was requested also what's happening within the schools. And so far our nurses and administrators have have handled it as

[10993-103] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Petrin: Really, really.
TEXT> Taking the challenge. And it's just great to see the teamwork. And I mean, they're a great bunch anyway. And maybe the kids will actually be helping us draft some of this as well too.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So if I can just.

[10993-107] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Heather Whitney: A.
TEXT> Little background to the reason why we're looking at this and we weren't looking at it before is because prior to this, the students were eating in their classrooms, and while they were eating in their classrooms, they were six feet apart so they could take their mask off and eat. So when we have to change to this model, the children would not be six feet apart in their classroom any longer, which would mean they cannot have mass breaks so they can't eat, snack or anything in there, so they would not be able to take their mass off to eat lunch. So that's why we said we need to bring them to the cafeteria. The only way to get them in the cafeteria, because one of the guidelines also says that the kids have to eat no earlier than 11:00. So if we, you know, we needed to make sure we were having all of our kids eat starting at 11:00 or a little later, and they have to be at least four feet apart. But we cannot have we have to have a barrier in front of them and one to the side of them in order for them to be able to take their mouths off and eat. Because, as you know, you can't have a kid eat in like this and they won't make any contact, especially the little ones with their friends next to them.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So we needed to make sure we were securing the space for them.

[10993-111] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the our fire chief as well as our compliance officer Blair and Chief Burr. Walk around with us and consult with us, as they often do, just just incredible professionals and and they help us out with this. So, but it wasn't it wasn't easy.
TEXT> And then many of you, that is many of you and Mr. Decker's class at home, if you've been in there  and I know our student rep Prescott has been in there for for many hours,  you can see the class, the, classroom on the left you can see is 12 deaths. And the spacing that they have, particularly in some of those older, narrower. And then we we went and that is  Dale Bonnell  who also assisted us in measuring that and seeing exactly how many deaths we could fit in to, to pull off this model as needed.  You know, that's an elementary room again, some other challenges. We got these beautiful deaths and they they are beautiful. We needed them. We had a lot of tables. They actually are kind of a funky shape. I forget what they what they call it.  But but it is, it is a,  in some places it's a little bit cramped, but they but they, What? We fit them in 12 to 20 at the elementary, room as well. All right. This is a slide. And I just wanted to go there before because there's a lot of a lot of misinformation out there about busses.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So basically these are from the earliest slides from the summer. I definitely couldn't pull off the shorts. Well, maybe today, but not a couple of days ago. The the,

[10993-126] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Petrin: For kids.
TEXT> Well, no, not not if we do four feet, it's going to go out more. All right. So you'll have all those kids going then if they go to the cafeteria, anyone that's sitting around them and if they're on the bus, anyone that's sitting around them as well as their teachers. So I just want to I just need to throw that out there that everybody's aware of, of the impact of of that.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I have a question. So along those lines.

[10993-129] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (cluster also carries a few in-room proc | 2020-09-23
PREV> Matt Upton: So in.
TEXT> The classroom today, the kids are spread out technically six feet. So you're  I don't think there's  I don't know, I guess the rules of the rules. But even if kids are spread out six feet today  and that one kid is sick, I don't think there's any chance that those kids haven't been closer. Walking up and down the hall, walking through the class, I think the zero chance that those kids have not been closer than 3 or 4ft.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, how.

[10993-137] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Petrin: With the current class they're not within six feet for throughout the day. They got to be within six feet for more than ten minutes. Just I'm going to talk to their but.
TEXT> I'm not in the classroom. And so I can't answer that question and I apologize for that. But our desks are six feet apart. So if the kids are at their desks then they're not, then they would not be. But I'm not saying that they wouldn't throughout the day. But we also have where people walk to. They walk six feet apart and they have spots to stand that are six feet apart. So we do have those things in the hallways.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Might I suggest that the math on four feet and six feet is the same? Somebody four feet from me in the next kid in front of them is eight

[10993-140] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: But but there are substantial, things that we have to report. And I think if I remember that because I heard you on that call, Donna, it was the person from the Department of Health just talking about how how the concerns about pivoting back.
TEXT> So it's not it's not that we can't do these things, but the management of it just just grows a little bit so that, that that's all. So and I also am remiss I didn't we didn't this is the first day we had a had Prescott Herzog here as our student rep for this year.  And I just wanted to mention that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Like do you have Mike, did you have a comment or question.

[10993-147] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (participating remotely; not presiding) | 2020-09-23
PREV> Donna Magoon: is in contact on on Friday they go back 48 hours. So it would be whoever you're with from Saturday on. So it's either the onset of symptoms or from when you get the the test the positive test or take the test. I'm sorry.
TEXT> When we set up the busses, are the kids succeed away from the driver?
NEXT> Mary Woodman: Are the kids

[10993-148] Mary Woodman | School district clerk and board recording secretary (takes roll) | 2020-09-23
PREV> Frank Sprague: When we set up the busses, are the kids succeed away from the driver?
TEXT> Are the kids
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm concerned what Donna just said about kids on the bus. If there's six feet away from the driver. Because if one of those kids was sick, would that take

[10993-149] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (participating remotely; not presiding) | 2020-09-23
PREV> Mary Woodman: Are the kids
TEXT> I'm concerned what Donna just said about kids on the bus. If there's six feet away from the driver. Because if one of those kids was sick, would that take a driver out.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There four feet away from the driver? But the driver. The driver? Well I'm sorry. They're they're they're four feet away from the driver. What we have ordered and they're

[10993-185] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding as acting chair in Frank  | 2020-09-23
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: It's really tough on the family and it's really tough on the community, but I'm still uncomfortable saying that this is the right plan if I'm willing to do what I'm supposed to do for the community, but the community is not upholding their end.
TEXT> Be supportive of this is that those children or individuals would have been symptomatic, whether or not they were in school, and they would have chosen to either get tested or not to get tested, depending on whether or not they were in school.  So the key point is, is that children that were symptomatic are now out of school, which protects the children that are in the school. So it's kind of a  and they're not allowed to come back unless they're symptomatic. So whether the parents choose or not to get the the children tested does not change whether the children in school or kept safe. Well, here's here's the thing that I looked at.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And, if a child is is the way it works is if a child has symptoms on Monday on say they have it on Wednesday, okay. They go back 48

[10993-187] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding as acting chair in Frank  | 2020-09-23
PREV> Donna Magoon: So that student that is symptomatic could have Covid and could have already affected other kids. So I think but we don't know. We won't know because, well, that child didn't get tested, so we wouldn't be doing the contact tracing on those other kids.
TEXT> But here's the distinction. The distinction is, is you have a child, a symptomatic student without risk factors and a symptomatic student with risk factors.  So those will be treated  entirely different. Different. If you had a child that was symptomatic within the district that presented to the student nurse or the staff nurse, or it was to somebody who had a number of these risk factors, they would be out for 14 days and then they would have to be there.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Only they're only out for 14 days.

[10993-209] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: impacts, student impacts. I know the burden. This is so we're all in it. We're all in it together. So, it's a tough decision. No one feels. No one walks away from any decision saying, yeah, we nailed it. You know, as always, always considerations.
TEXT> And if I can just add  to that, Do I think we could we could do it. Yes. However, I don't think that we can do it for our, for the fifth because we don't have all of our safety stuff ready. We don't have. I mean, that's like, what, eight days? Something like that. And we don't even have the prototypes. They're not even made yet. So I don't think that the October 5th date would be enough time for us to get everybody all the stuff that we need and to make sure it's safe for our kids, but I think we can do it. But I think we need time to do it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Question. And Mike, you were garbled, probably for the first 30s of the answer so I could not make you if you said yes or no. It is question.

[10993-217] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Heather Whitney: Got questions from Rebecca first, then Rob, and then.
TEXT> If that's fine. But I do want to toss out there that in another district all the staff are pulled on how long they thought it would take to switch from hybrid to a full in-person reopen in the overwhelming majority said four weeks in, the options were one, two, 3 or 4. So I just want to throw that out there. The other thing I'm wondering is you keep saying that we can definitely fit all the kids in the classrooms at three feet. But I've been in a lot of the classrooms, and I don't think that's true. To be honest, not that you're seeing a lie, but I don't think that's that's true. And I'm just wondering why when we think about reopening, we wouldn't be going off, the sizes of each classroom and the amount of students that would be coming back for each teacher, because it seems like it's not a one size fits all. Yeah.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I, I can speak to that. So we did two things. We measured all the rooms to see exactly. You know, what we thought we could pull off and we're

[10993-226] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: What are the metrics in which we would reverse that decision? At what point will we decide this is now two high risk.
TEXT> So  the the things that happens is if there. Is if we. Have children that. Come down with it, I contact in contact with VP HS. Right away and then they meet with me and we go over  this. So they work with us to say, okay, you either need to shut down depending upon depending upon the situation and the severity of it. So there there are some school districts that one student is exposed. But because the, the,  the, kids moved from class to class, that whole grade had to go to remote for two weeks. So it depends upon the severity of it when they're doing the contact tracing. And it could just be in some cases like right now, the way we have it with hybrid, if one class closes those kids eat in their classroom. They so they don't move around a lot throughout the hallways. So you're not seeing kids walking through the hallways all the time when they are there with a staff member. So for our younger ones, it may just be that one class  that would go or it would be the certain kids just around them. So it it  varies on the amount of contact the child has with people throughout the day. Okay.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: And in regards to teachers assuming a teacher.

[10993-228] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: And in regards to teachers assuming a teacher.
TEXT> In regards to teachers, it would be that the the contact that was made with it. So if you if you look at our say our middle school or high school, if you have one child that is, that is, you know, has it, then depending upon the classes that they go to, they could take out all the teachers along the way. So those teachers would then work remotely. So those kids would then take the class remotely.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So in one of the one of the points about this. And that's why that's a good guiding document, the one we presented as to how you do that, as

[10993-254] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: But the thing I don't know.
TEXT> The notion of psychological trauma. By switching these kids in two weeks, that sort of just came out. That's not the case with all kids. I just wanted to point out that this is this is this is Prescott saying his opinion. Okay. And I got a different opinion from some other kids.  And the biggest concern one boy had was simply whether or not he's going to go out and have lunch again outside of the school that happened. So,  so, so I just want there to be a full  understanding of the minds that are working in the school. Not every kid is sitting at home wondering, oh my God, how am I going to tolerate going back to school with a bunch of other kids? And I just wanted to have that pointed out clearly.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: My concern is that we delineate a clear cut off time. Two weeks, and they've spoken about it a couple times.

[10993-263] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: necessary protection for both the students and the teachers. Children are largely asymptomatic. They're not getting tested, as we've seen from the numbers here, and the teachers tend to be the highest risk demographic. So I am in favor of reopening to a full reopening.
TEXT> If we can meet the necessary guidelines to make sure that the people that are doing the teaching are going to be as just as safe as the children, they're saying, we can't meet that by the September or by the October deadline. They would like to have to the November deadline that  I'm here with all the data. I'm comfortable with the data. I get that our transmission rates are low. My concern is we are now going to blow past all the OSHA guidelines, the safety guidelines, just to get the job done. And I'm not comfortable with that.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Isn't it proof?

[10993-285] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (medium - speaks 'from the specia | 2020-09-23
PREV> Ben Nester: just barely. Families are transporting some kids in on their off days, so that they can get services remotely. Some parents have perhaps change their work schedules around so that they can get their kids in for speech services or other different types of services.
TEXT> So, I would think just on that point, it would be important to give parents a tad more time, right? To, to make this change, they can certainly prepare. It gives them a month to talk to their employers and make and make changes. So that's one point. You know, I there was talk Jason, I think you mentioned it and maybe Donna did to,  you know, the trauma quote unquote, that people are going to experience if we reopen in two weeks. Right. I don't think anyone is going to be traumatized if we reopen on October 5th. We've gone through a lot as a community. The kids have gone through a lot, and the kids are resilient, right? However, we have 450 employees, right? And all of our employees are human beings, to my knowledge. And there's a lot of angst and anxiety around shifting things back and forth and back and forth. And I think, I think just from a leadership point of view, it's important that we give folks more time to wrap their minds around  coming back and and so on and so forth. Right. There's also a lot of folks that are currently working remotely. There's some that are going to come out of the woodwork and ask to work remotely, and we need time to plan for that.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So reopening at the core end would be would help us plan for that. Two other quick points and I'll be quiet. Or actually just one other one just at

[10993-295] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (not self-named; identified as the high | 2020-09-23
PREV> Unidentified: Answer to that about about how they're how they're doing performance. Okay. Please.
TEXT> Hi there.  So we have right now. Students who are remote don't have the opportunity to do band or choir. Because of the nature of the performance level of that kind of a course. So we are at about 26% of our population has decided to go remote. Our number as of today was 143 versus the 124 that you saw in the presentation. So that has increased 19 students since nine nine, and it's going up on a daily basis. That's one of my concerns  is that, if we if we decide to go back earlier, then when we have everything in place that that number of students and families deciding to go remote will continue to  increase. Rebecca, a lot of, a lot of angst and hand-wringing has gone into what what are we doing for our kids in the arts, in our theater classes, our our music and our singing? Singing isn't allowed. And right now, in our music classes of students are making a hands on,  special kind of masks so that they can sing. Because of the cost of those masks, availability of them is just not there. So instead of singing, they're making singing masks, which in and of itself is is a great activity, but it's not choir.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So, you know, I'm very much torn as a building principal because we know the things that can't happen with fidelity. We have two kids in a fourth block acting

[10993-297] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (not self-named; identified as the high | 2020-09-23
PREV> Patricia Barry: talked about that we need for PPE, for the plexiglass to. And we know that if you bring all both cohorts together, we're going to have some classes that have 26 students in them. Rob. Mike. Jason, you walked through the high school last week.
TEXT> In a couple of days ago, you saw what those classrooms look like with 14 or 12 desks in there. And you know what they would look like if we had to double that number of desks, which is what we would have to do if we came back. There's no way to keep even a three foot distance. And some of those classes if I've got 26 kids in there. So those are my concerns as a principal. For our kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If you'd like to respond. And then we'll go to Mike.

[10993-303] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (cluster also carries a few in-room proc | 2020-09-23
PREV> Heather Whitney: Did you still have something to say?
TEXT> Yes, I, I've deferred a couple of times. So I got my list. So hopefully I can kind of work through this. As far as the, the, the numbers for the kids that are going home and getting tested, my son, being one of them, are not tested, are not tested. They were sent home. To me, the kids that are not being tested would indicate that Covid is not in that area in their household, because if these kids were truly positive, you would assume that since their kids spread Covid that their family, their parents, mom and dad, grandma, grandpa would be coming down with Covid and we would see more than four cases in Claremont. So to me that the number, even though they weren't tested, I take that as that's a good sign that Covid is not truly there. It it's  it is  small numbers. As far as the changes and teachers being and I appreciate what teachers do. I have  teachers in my family. Not here, but elsewhere. And it's a job that I respect.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So with the fear of losing teachers or staff because of this change, I don't think there's going to be a difference if we change today, tomorrow, next week, or

[10993-304] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (cluster also carries a few in-room proc | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Petrin: good sign that Covid is not truly there. It it's it is small numbers. As far as the changes and teachers being and I appreciate what teachers do. I have teachers in my family. Not here, but elsewhere. And it's a job that I respect.
TEXT> So with the fear of losing teachers or staff because of this change, I don't think there's going to be a difference if we change today, tomorrow, next week, or three weeks from now. If Covid is still something that's going on and you go back to full, I don't. I think you may lose teachers, you may lose staff. But I don't think there's a difference between making this on the staff that you're going to lose. If that decision is made for next week, week after or three weeks from now. That's my personal, feeling. I, I, you know, it's tough because I feel like a lot of. Decisions being made or a lot of the reports we're hearing as far as Prescott about students or the teachers, they're all it's rooted in fear and is rooted in fear of something that, yes, it's in our community, but it's in our community in a very, very small number. I work in a nursing home,  and  I, I feel some of that fear myself, too. I,  you know, I don't want to contract Covid and bring it to where I work. None of us want to get Covid. And bring it to our families or  anybody else. But I feel like a lot of what we're hearing from people that are not wanting to go back and full is based on a fear of what's going on elsewhere in the country.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Houston, these major hot spots. You know, it's a fear of what you see on the news of how horrible all these other areas are, and we're lucky that we

[10993-305] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (cluster also carries a few in-room proc | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Petrin: get Covid. And bring it to our families or anybody else. But I feel like a lot of what we're hearing from people that are not wanting to go back and full is based on a fear of what's going on elsewhere in the country.
TEXT> Houston,  these major hot spots. You know, it's a fear of what you see on the news of how horrible all these other areas are, and we're lucky that we have it here in very small numbers. And as I ramble on, my last point was making sure I want to make sure that when we do, whether it's tomorrow or next week or the week after, when you go back and full, that we're using our space appropriately, that can we look at adjoining rooms? If the class is going to have 26 students and you have an adjoining room, why not 13 and 13 in adjoining rooms? And yes, it's going to be more difficult for the teacher to go back and forth. But if you have a pair that can help out in the class, you know the teacher can wander back and forth between that open doorway. Can you use your auditoriums or your gyms? You're  using your gyms for lunch in a lot of schools, but can you use them for a classroom at other times during the kids to, yeah, the gym, the cafeteria, when they're not being used. So, you know, thinking about spreading kids out that way is using all your space. So, I think this all had on my list, and.
NEXT> Unidentified: I respond to.

[10993-310] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Heather Whitney: Two things.
TEXT> The first thing is staff leaving, that if we if we decide that we were going to wait and do it at the end of, you know, when the new quarter is going to start,  and so the staff now are aware of that. So now tomorrow we ask the staff who's leaving and who's staying, or will more than likely get no by the time we walk out the door. This will give us more time to hire people to fill those positions. Okay, so that's the first part. The second. The second part is I am by no means afraid of Covid at all. What I am afraid of is I'm afraid that that I am going to be forced to send students and staff into an environment that I know for 100%, without a doubt in my mind, that is not safe  because we do not have the supplies that we need to make it safe. That's what I'm afraid of.  So I'm not I I'm  more than happy to go back 100%. But  let me get let us get the supplies that we need so we can assure the safety for our of our kids, in our staff.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Like a parliamentary question. Is it possible to maybe reword a motion to, instead of being October, fit the November 2nd? Because what I've seen from the board so far

[10993-321] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding as acting chair in Frank  | 2020-09-23
PREV> Heather Whitney: we can't get this we can't get that we're not going to be able to meet an ideal standard from somebody who, you know, I'm just speaking of personal experience, is that our whole my whole Covid experience has been a not an ideal standard.
TEXT> So we have always kind of walked into getting a better situation. And that's not ideal. But I think almost every workplace that deals directly with people where people need interaction, that's where you're going to find the situation is sub ideal situations. The only thing I haven't interested in, or I can kind of feel a connection is, is perhaps at high school  maintaining the hybrid model until the end of the semester, whereas elementary school and the middle school, I would like to have them open, you know. My sense is, is that there may be some benefit to the students in the high school for that type of consistency and that natural end high school students, their minds work differently and they're impacted differently.  But that's at this point, I still feel very strongly that we open full as soon as possible. Go ahead.
NEXT> Unidentified: And then, Frank.

[10993-329] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: say, okay, we have to shift this way, we have to shift that way. And it takes a little bit of time. So that's, that's what I, that's what I think will take a couple of, of weeks on the fast track of getting it.
TEXT> If we get the survey information right away, work like we did on the other one, get all that stuff. The part that I feel confident, based on the amazing efforts of that middle school team today on the prototype is I  like that. And not only that, I never even mentioned the cost. If we had to procure that, if we could, that would be upwards of $100,000 to get those ordered dividers. Okay, so that's also a major teachers want the kids back to. I don't want you to, you know, to to  to not get that. And as, as, as a takeaway from this. But, but those are, those are the things that that take planning in time and that's and it's also  in that we did learn okay from the last  ramp up of of what to expect for that. I think we'll get a quick return on who wants to come back. I mean, let's be honest. And but we don't know how that will shake out the other way. And we don't have a solution for the hybrid. See kids right away. Okay. Particularly in the secondary school, we're set on the cohorts for the remote people so far in the elementary, right.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The remote cohorts I'm talking about, because we know that's a teacher for a set of kids very similar. You just on a computer screen up here. The schedules are

[10993-485] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Unidentified: Time on.
TEXT> The school board, this has probably been the hardest thing that I've ever had to try and, figure out and tackle. And I'm really appreciative of everybody who's email emailed the school board members, and I just wanted to let people know that I may not have responded, but I've read everything. There's been 21 emails in two days. And, you know, we're all still working our jobs and taking care of our kids. So just because I didn't know any back doesn't mean I didn't read it. And all of your opinions are important. So just know this was a challenging decision, I'm sure, for all of us.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Okay. On that note.

[11007-57] Mimi | Public commenter, Ward 1; Stevens High School counselor (ASR 'Meteorit | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Actually, I think, Mimi, you can come up to this chair. There's a mic right there.
TEXT> Yeah. Okay. It's nice to see everyone in person tonight. I am here today to express my concerns about cutting busses for high school. I fully realize and appreciate that the board wants to get everyone back 100% full time.  However, I truly do not feel it is right to take away bussing from high school kids. I have an extremely hard time telling kids that they can't come to school because their family situation doesn't work. To allow them to have a parent or a sibling drive them, or if they live out on Chestnut Street or Bible Hill or wherever far away,  and obviously with Upper Cloud.  Not all of our students have licenses. None of the freshmen do. Maybe a couple of sophomores? Yep. Sorry, Mike.  I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Oh, sorry. Sorry, sorry. I start over again.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I would, yes, please.

[11007-59] Mimi | Public commenter, Ward 1; Stevens High School counselor (ASR 'Meteorit | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: I would, yes, please.
TEXT> Ward one. It's nice to see everyone in person tonight. Google meet. I'm here today to express my stress, my concerns about cutting busses for high school. I fully realize and appreciate that the board wants to get everyone back 100% full time. However, I truly do not feel it is right. Take away bussing from the high school kids. I have an extremely hard time telling kids that they can't come to school because their family situation doesn't work. To allow them to have a parent or a sibling drive them, or if they live out in the hinterland of Chestnut Street or Bible Hill  or wherever. Not all of our students have licenses. None of the freshmen do. Maybe a few sophomores, and obviously the upper classmen, a chunk of them have their licenses, but not all of them drivers as expensive and not everything. They can afford it.  And if they have their licenses, that doesn't mean they have access to a car a regular basis. By taking away bussing, we are inadvertently creating a barrier for students who want to come to school. I get that we have a limited number of busses in our district, and I get this a pandemic and we're doing cultural distancing.
NEXT> Mimi: I totally understand and appreciate that. However, students who want to school should not have to scramble to find a ride. We're happy to remote because our only transportation taken

[11007-60] Mimi | Public commenter, Ward 1; Stevens High School counselor (ASR 'Meteorit | 2020-10-07
PREV> Mimi: a regular basis. By taking away bussing, we are inadvertently creating a barrier for students who want to come to school. I get that we have a limited number of busses in our district, and I get this a pandemic and we're doing cultural distancing.
TEXT> I totally understand and appreciate that.  However, students who want to school should not have to scramble to find a ride. We're happy to remote because our only transportation taken away from them. As a school counselor at the high school, I don't really know what to tell students and families when they come to me upset because their child who struggled remote learning will now have to be fully remote again because, for example, mom works a overnight shift at a factory in town and they live out in their ways. He cannot walk to school safely, especially with winter months. There are some parts of Claremont. It's  an over an hour long walk to the high school and in the winter, with icy roads and darkness, that's a disaster waiting to happen. And that's an example that is quite true for a lot of our students. This isn't a fair or right position to put our families in. I know the board had expressed worry about the hybrid model doing damage to the town's economy back in August. I would encourage you all to think about how this decision is going to impact the economy.
NEXT> Mimi: If parents have to cut back their hours or even quit their jobs to ensure that their child is able to attend school in person without bussing. In closing, I

[11007-61] Mimi | Public commenter, Ward 1; Stevens High School counselor (ASR 'Meteorit | 2020-10-07
PREV> Mimi: or right position to put our families in. I know the board had expressed worry about the hybrid model doing damage to the town's economy back in August. I would encourage you all to think about how this decision is going to impact the economy.
TEXT> If parents have to cut back their hours or even quit their jobs to ensure that their child is able to attend school in person without bussing. In closing, I would implore the board to look at options that would allow even just 1 or 2 busses for high school kids. I completely understand that this is a school year unlike any other. I often joke I must have missed the class on how to  be a school counselor and grad school. However, this decision is causing added stress to our high school families in this district and as an advocate for our students, I felt I needed to voice to the board. I appreciate your time. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are there any other citizens comments? Seeing none. I'll close citizens comments and we'll move on to our general business with the superintendent's report. Jeff, is there anyone on on

[11007-69] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-10-07
PREV> Richard Seaman: cleaning is necessary of just dirt or whatever is there, clean, missed it? Close the door. That room is done until the next morning and work their way around the buildings. Now I know what we're also hearing is floors are suffering during this time.
TEXT> What we have said to the custodians is the disinfection. The disinfecting that needs to go on is the most critical item. If there's anything that isn't going to be done every day and holds off until Wednesdays, when we don't have people in the building. It'll be sweeping down or mopping down the floors. So we have heard that we know there are some issues that are out there. It's inconsistent from building the building. And Stephen Holt is working with his team to try and stay on on top of that and address the situations as they as they come along. But the concept of deep cleaning, where we're we're doing it every day. We're trying to ensure when our kids come in and our staff come in in the morning, they have everything they need to safely be able to go through the day and, and do what we're asking them to do.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The next item I have, this is the sketch for the, the carbonate, polycarbonate barriers that are going to be in the lunch tables. I have a couple other slides

[11007-72] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: tables we're going to put on this and increase the fire load as it's referred to by the fire department, this is this is the course in which we're going, and we're very thankful to the folks for coming out and helping us with that.
TEXT> The next item that I have is and you can see some, some of the work and that's just believe me, that's just some of it. And the reconfiguring of classes in the shifts made from  how we. This is the elementary, this is K-5, and there are 643 students K-5, less than 8%, actually, in this one. When I made it, there was another change that was made since this, today versus yesterday. And it's going to be probably only about 6%, 5 or 6% of those students and only the students who are remote. We had to consolidate remote classes to shift for certification in as, as some dropped out. But we had to reconfigure all all, you know, go go through every teaching assignment and make sure that it  we had the the numbers, the staffing. We had to do that at all grade levels. And it was at the elementaries, they they had the benefit of already having 15 or 16 teachers specifically in teaching remotely. And then we had to look at who, who might come back and what was requested. So so we, we changed a couple of assignments around. Next I wanted to what came up particularly from from Mimi when she presented citizens comment about the,  the not being able to commit to having a a bus for Stevens High School as it's not required.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I wanted to show you some of the data that that we've been looking at. You know, obviously we we don't we're not excited about that aspect either. But but

[11007-96] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes clerk Mary Woodman's roll calls, several  | 2020-10-07
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah, I understand that. I understand I'm just looking for an approximate number.
TEXT> We look right now at our bussing. Okay, so just today we received three phone calls from parents saying  I need to put my kid on the bus because we're going back five days because before, when it was two days, they could kind of swing it, bringing their own child, but now they can't, by law, were required to bust students first grade to eighth grade. And so what happens is, if we have to make sure that if a parent is to call that we have space for them on the bus, so we can't. So even if we said 24 and there was 22, we can't say, okay, we're going to take you and you, but then all of a sudden someone calls and says, I want to put my kid in the bus. And we have to say, okay, tomorrow you're off the bus. You're off the bus.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Right, I completely understand. Yeah. The second thing I wanted to just share was I've also been getting, like I said, a lot of emails from parents who are super

[11007-108] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: You know, first survey of a half of the people who are currently on the busses did say they they were looking to find an alternative way. But I again, that was with two days versus five to, to this point. So.
TEXT> So I you know, because I don't doubt it. I mean Rebecca lives probably up by Cornish and I live actually on the I don't have any kids in school, but,  I live on the North Charleston line, and so I know it's quite a ways from where I live and where Richard, for example, he's on the Cornish line, so it's quite a schlepped into to school from there. So I think they're probably are going to be some people, a few who really have to have some form of transportation have to. So I think that that it would be interesting to find out who these people are  and where. It's  not a matter of convenience, but a matter of absolute necessity that they cannot get a right to school. And so I don't know how we find that out, but I know our original we, I saw survey and it was about half of the people who ride the bus, which is, well, maybe a quarter of the kids in school are  not that many, kids. Really. So I think one of the things that I find a little bit and this is an this is a name that the administration, this is sort of the public, that we were, they told us one thing in them hoping that, which makes our decisions based on what they told us, a little tougher to, to live with.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I wish what people would, you know, if they can get their kid to school. And it's a matter of convenience if they could notify the saw and say,

[11007-117] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member; attending remotely | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Carolyn, can you repeat just the first part of what you said? Because I didn't have my mic, my speaker on.
TEXT> Self West Community Services, their bus route, they are so willing to  help out the community.  I think that they would be very useful during the interim until we can put the kids back on the bus, to help out.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: All right.

[11007-127] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (called 'Frank' on the record; surn | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Romeo: return and, and whatever that looks like come February 1st, we want them to know that we care. And our faculty and staff want to bring them together. So what you see here is something that that the faculty and staff worked incredibly hard on.
TEXT> No one idea was, automatically adopted. It sort of was, why don't we try this and can we do this? And what do you think about that? And then we sort of vetted the process with our faculty in a number of different ways.   And so we finally met yesterday, and then we met in different grade levels today to kind of get some more feedback. So what what Audrey is about to talk about it, the two of us will talk about, I want to thank the faculty and staff publicly, for their hard work and dedication to to all our students specifically working to bring cohort C into the.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: At first, I guess I just want to thank I have I spent nine years on a school board right up the road, and I know that what you guys

[11007-128] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Romeo: So what what Audrey is about to talk about it, the two of us will talk about, I want to thank the faculty and staff publicly, for their hard work and dedication to to all our students specifically working to bring cohort C into the.
TEXT> At first, I guess I just want to thank I have I spent nine years on a school board right up the road, and I know that what you guys are having to decide, I would never want to do it. It was hard enough pre-COVID to sit on a school board and make decisions of the magnitude that you're making. So thank you for all that you guys do. I don't take lightly what is on you to to consider.  So  with that, we also appreciate the opportunity to kind of  come in and do what we need to do for students and the trust you place in all of us, the administration at the district level, as well as at each of the schools and the educators to make the decisions that we need to make based on the expertise that we have. It's been kind of a very positive thing for me working in this district to know that we have we're empowered to do that.  And  with that, I would echo I just want to echo what Frank said about our staff, but also our families. Since the summer, between sitting on all of the committees that we sat on  and then making phone calls to families to make sure they understood the decisions they were making on behalf of their children, and then reaching out and asking what it meant to be placed.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: Hybrid versus remote versus homeschooling. We have spent a number of hours talking with our families, and they're in a tough position making decisions as well. But I also think

[11007-129] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Audra Buckland: between sitting on all of the committees that we sat on and then making phone calls to families to make sure they understood the decisions they were making on behalf of their children, and then reaching out and asking what it meant to be placed.
TEXT> Hybrid versus remote versus homeschooling.  We have spent a number of hours talking with our families, and they're in a tough position making decisions as well. But I also think we've had the opportunity to understand more than ever through those conversations, kind of what our families are considering and how tough it is on them, and that their opinions are represented here to the best that we could. The only other thing I will say about kind of globally about it is and somebody came up and said this to me today, and it reminded me of being on a school board, that this schedule, while it does a lot of incredibly good things, I think, is it represents a compromise from a lot of people on behalf of a lot of people. It's not perfect. When when I was on the school board, we used to joke that, you know, you've made a good decision decision if you have irritated everybody just a little bit. So, so that's probably I mean, I think I think our schedule actually helps a lot of people, but it probably will not make everybody happy. Some of the things that we were looking at when we went into this is that we and this is how we approach a lot of the processes that we do at the middle school is what are we trying to achieve.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: And really through our building leadership team and just a lot of input from a lot of people, what are the key driving things that we need to achieve? And

[11007-130] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Audra Buckland: make everybody happy. Some of the things that we were looking at when we went into this is that we and this is how we approach a lot of the processes that we do at the middle school is what are we trying to achieve.
TEXT> And really through our building leadership team and just a lot of input from a lot of people, what are the key driving things that we need to achieve? And there were really three in the first, of course, for everybody, and it's on everybody's mind. Everywhere is the optimal safety for everybody in the building, from students to staff,  to families that are being impacted by kids going home and staff going home to our, you know, to our community. Education and quality educational opportunities for all students, both the C cohort students and the students who are in person. Was  the second one, and then a third one was really being able to bridge from here to wherever we're going next, because none of us see what we're doing right now as a permanent solution to anything. We at least hope it's not. So what? How does our schedule breathe and flex with where we're going next?  What we ended up coming up with, and I think hopefully people know that we've been for a couple of years now, really working towards incorporating project based learning. I would say that the biggest compromise in the schedule that's in front of you is that we had to pull out our dedicated time for project based learning.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: It's very unfortunate, but I also, I think both Frank and I feel pretty confident in our staff that people are so bought into it and excited about it that

[11007-134] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (called 'Frank' on the record; surn | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Romeo: September and were we prepared for it, and how were we going to support our faculty and staff and our families? And so, I'm excited and looking forward to that being be introduced into our schedule. And again, it's a it's a series of compromises.
TEXT> But having that there and being able to offer again chorus  and band. In a format that we weren't able to and reaches all learners and helps provide all our students. So, this schedule is exciting for a number of reasons. And with safety, obviously is Audrey talked about being the primal focus along with quality education for all learners. So, I have.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: And touching back on the safety piece. I think originally when we put this out to faculty and when we started talking about it and we thought what we had

[11007-136] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Audra Buckland: of what the options were for our C cohort learners and looking at what their learning was right now, and feeling very frustrated that as the weeks go by, we are not having the opportunity to reach them the way that we would like to.
TEXT> And I think, you know, Frank mentioned this. We do see them as our students, kids. Kids were already catching the buzz of boy, October 19th, what happens to us? So as their Google meeting with their teachers, teachers were coming back with this feedback. And so as we were looking at safety and numbers and really started to model it up, starting to model it out, we realized that if we kept our current schedule teaching three with every teacher teaching three blocks, the maximum class size is going to be 18 in the building. If we were to get, you know, maybe a couple more kids in per grade level, maybe it would jump up to 19. But the way that we have it structured with kids staying in one space, except for science and UA, we feel we could be strategic about the largest classrooms, taking any classes that bumped up towards that 18.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: And doing it in a, in a safe, socially distant way. There are practices that will have to change, and teachers are already talking about kids with kids about that

[11007-137] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Audra Buckland: maybe it would jump up to 19. But the way that we have it structured with kids staying in one space, except for science and UA, we feel we could be strategic about the largest classrooms, taking any classes that bumped up towards that 18.
TEXT> And doing it in a, in a safe, socially distant way. There are practices that will have to change, and teachers are already talking about kids with kids about that in advisory. What are we going to have to do differently? But they're going to be able to stay in three. And that's where we will be able to take that fourth block that we were going to spread students out into and actually  siphon off all of the C cohort kids  that you would normally have in those three blocks that you would that the teachers have been responsible for already and been connecting with, and they will have a dedicated teaching time during that fourth block in the morning. Then during lunch, you get the extra support for kids who are in the building. And at 140, in the schedule that you see in front of you, students that are in person would be dismissed, that that's 35 minutes earlier than they currently are, and the rest of the day would be for Google meets and check ins with the C cohort, kids just from one block. So each day is a different block. So basically the C cohort kids are getting their extra help block in the afternoon at the end of the day. Any questions about that? Because it's it took us a lot to wrap our heads around and we live and breathe it every day. So. Yeah.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: For in the block for which looks like it's 1032 to 1120 and then the end of the day. So what is what is that exactly entail? Will they be

[11007-141] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> It would require that students would be expected to, to attend to, to log in at that time.  I think that one of the things for our teachers is it can be I'm sure you guys can appreciate incredibly overwhelming. They want to support all these kids. They have got a classroom in front of them right now. They have some some prep time built in that we're using just to help them get up to speed on some of the different ways of teaching that we're doing. And then they're getting emails and requests for individual meetings until late at night. And our teachers are understandably exhausted right now from that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Someone ask you, Rob or Carolyn, do you have any questions for Miss Buckland? Any other questions here?

[11007-166] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Got an email said as board members from parents who are wondering exactly what the safety precautions are going to be, at the school level. So can you just really quickly share, some of the precautions that are being taken at the middle school?
TEXT> Sure.  So, you know, class size is the most obvious and physical distance, the wearing of masks is the next most obvious. I think most teachers you will find have their windows open as much as possible. We were Frank, and I and many of the teachers were talking today about needing to really get something out, communication wise about students dressing for cooler classrooms, because we want teachers to be able to have windows open for as long as possible. That I know from my board days, I'm going, oh my gosh, heat expenses are going to go through the roof. But, in in New Hampshire, that's no small small thing. But so windows open, less passing time. One of the things about our current schedule, if we had gone to four  blocks of students who are in person, physically, in terms of the space in our building, kids would have had to move. So one of the things our teachers and our staff we really talked about is, which is safer students? The cohorts would have stayed the same as the students. So from a contact tracing point of view, we still would have been very careful in been able to do that.  But the hallway passing and the number of kids in contact with each other and even, shockingly or not shockingly, middle schoolers are incredibly social.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: One of the saddest things is to see them not be able to spend as much social time as they used to, but the more social time they spend, sometimes,

[11007-179] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: unmuted. And you have to manage the class at the same time. We have some teaching assistants in the classrooms to help out once we move towards synchronous and things like that. But we have a ways to go to be very good at it.
TEXT> But I just I commend the high school as well, having been a high school  principal for 15 years. In it is we're slow to change at the high school more if you get into it's kind of a classic situation, you know, I think throughout the country and again, they're being teachers are being flexible  administrators coming up with solutions that that best benefit all the kids, particularly the seas, because it would be tough. The the seas would have a lot less coming back five than the dedicated Wednesday. And that this is a very good approach to get to that. So, hats off to them.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So Carolyn has Carolyn has a question.

[11007-181] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member; attending remotely | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: So Carolyn has Carolyn has a question.
TEXT> You know, so often we don't think the people that are at the crux of trying to make all the changes and for the betterment of our kids, I'm lost for words right now, but I commend everybody, everybody that's been involved with all of our changes and more to come. And and just a simple thank you. That's all I can give you. Unbelievable.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Carol.

[11007-191] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: districts across New Hampshire are doing have been doing live already and, some haven't been, but there's been a lot of questions about Claremont and why aren't we doing live? Sure. Cetera, etc.. So can you explain what the hangup has been on that so.
TEXT> That to defend that technology progress in the last year and a half because it's been absolutely staggering. So, even before Covid, as you know, we were we were moving to 1 to 1 this year,  which in the I  mentioned  that to you, that  Jeff, Jeff has been  working to get all of all of the Chromebooks. Most of those are in some were still back. And we have, you know, but but I think all of those are in now.  We have some of the districts that you hear that are doing the best example that I know of is Kearsarge. Right. So Kearsarge has  had independent online, 1 to 1 program for a few years now. Their mantra is that they are, remote in person, meaning at any point they can pivot back and forth. Right when the kids come in, they come in every day  with the Chromebook that they're used to, and then they get the instruction to couple it. Much like college, everything in college now is hybrid online. Moodle and Blackboard and all kinds of other platforms. That's going to be the expectation for them. It's the expectation in the workplace as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we're not there yet. We're just getting the machines. We're getting the projectors. We're getting everything in terms of our teaching stations being able to broadcast. Never mind. Now

[11007-299] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: I mean, Mike and.
TEXT> I talk about this a couple of thoughts. We we currently, have to use a private provider to get some of our kiddos down to programs in Keene. We're talking hundreds, a couple hundred bucks a day, and that's that's on the low end. So if we have, we have additional vans. Pam's hired a few additional drivers. It's a big cost savings right there. The program Mike's referring to at the high school is, we used to have the life skills. So we still have life skills at the high school, which you guys are very familiar with. And we used to have two special educators in that life skills program. Going back pre-COVID. We essentially split that program in two and one one, one one side of the program operates the way it always has been with Kelly Fontaine. And then the other side of the program is for students that are going to do a little more work in the community, like job placements and things of that nature. It's a need that we knew we wanted to get back to.  And so we have Jessica Furlan running that program. It's been stalled a little bit, frankly, because the community sort of closed down when we hired her. But that would be another great use of an additional van to get those kids out to, to Hannaford in different places as well. And so.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Let's get a motion and then we can this could be the discussion. As part of the motion.

[11007-321] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-10-07
PREV> Unidentified: Well.
TEXT> What, Rebecca asked pretty pointedly, is whether these busses were going to be used for the students that were in our special ed programs, like, say, within the school system currently. And what I heard was that it was going to be you, the the vans, not the busses. Excuse me, but the vans were going to be used to facilitate the transportation of an expanding of our expanding special ed program. So for me, that was a distinction, because if I was, if I was a member of the public, I'd be saying to myself, well, wait a second, didn't we set money aside specifically for the expansion of the special education program versus so it would it would stick in my craw a little bit.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Patrick. Patrick, I can call on you, but nobody's going to hear you. Except us. Is that okay? That's fine. Okay.

[11007-478] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-10-07
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you for doing the right thing, Mike. Mike.
TEXT> So I just wanted to say I. I  thought maybe it'd be part of the student  report today, but, I wanted to let everybody know that the Stevens High School golf team finished. I think it was 19 and zero undefeated. Which means they're second in the state of New Hampshire going into the tournament, I believe next week. Playing in the bow was first place. Particularly, I believe Finn Allen is  right up there at the top of the state somewhere. And I just want to give a shout out to also Coach Ryan Seaver, who has done the fundraising for the team. None of the funds come through to the school. It's all fundraising  that Coach Seaver and his team do, to provide kids. My son's on the middle school team. So, provide the kids with the clubs, the bags, the carts. So just an awesome job that the golf team is doing. So thank you.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Thank you.

[11007-489] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-10-07
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah I coach. Middle school.
TEXT> So I've been able to see some of the middle school. I would say that our fans, the middle school fans, especially from Claremont, have done a very good job of distancing from my experience.  The visiting towns  often not so much. I  tend to go to a fair amount of different games. Soccer.  Varsity field hockey. And Monadnock Park. I've noticed the same thing in the stands. The Claremont fans tend to spread out pretty well. Maybe they're a little close along the fence. The visiting teams. However, I won't mention any of the towns. However, some of the towns that are the most restrictive about letting our kids or people go watch them, we we have them coming in in droves, and I've seen them packed right together. So you'll have  the opposing team up, up against the fence and you'll have, you know, 50 kids. I don't know how you control somebody else's people. However, I was relatively impressed by the the distancing that our people seem to be doing. So just my own observation.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Which frankly. I just want to. Not. Give the wrong impression. I'm sorry, but it sounds terrible when we say that. But I think a lot of time administrators make

[11056-33] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board (Stevens High School) | 2020-12-02
PREV> Prescott Herzog: And then the as a B career expectation test is going to be given to juniors and seniors in the upcoming December 9th. Actually, and if you want to have more information and can read the full email, Mr. Curran at our current at six.
TEXT> Org for Claremont Middle School. Congratulations to the students of the month for grade six. It's Mason Harford, Olivia Bella Staines and Olivia Sun for grade seven, it's Trevor Adams, Sebastian Garro, Logan Minkler, and Talon Talon worsen a great eight. It's a Riley  Roach. Oakland. Hemingway. Austin. Sumo. And for the media center, it's Ella Chambers and Oakland Hemingway and for unified Arts. It is Levy boner and Grace Goss.  Lily Egan and Riley Leonard and Mia Herbert. Winter sports officially start December 14th, and they'll be holding tryouts, usually 2 or 3 days. And due to the limited amount of people this year we can have in the gym at a time,  they'll be having an A and B team for both boys and girls this year. Bluff. There isn't any updates for this report. For dinner. Just that the PTA meeting on December 8th and then at Maple Ave, students continue to impress us with their understanding and willingness to keep their masks on and be mindful of social distancing. And a big thank you to their efforts and supports. And then the kindergartners, first graders, visions and pride classes have start working on an art alphabet. Each week, students will create a drawing based on different letters of the alphabet. And then in grades two and five, they've been working on creating art in the style of artist Wayne Feeble, who turned 100 this month.  So they've been creating cupcakes and slice of cake drawings.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[11056-40] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: needs and the like. And that's kind of the origins of it. So we've been reviewing that, that because that the actual contract is under negotiation, I'm going to speak to the public portions that I can can speak to about to inform the community.
TEXT> Why why we're pursuing this, how we think it's a good fit. And our communications with with Goshen so far from the Claremont side as well as we had a we will have a meeting next week to talk about it on the unity side to to each board has to individually. Pursue the agreement and going forward with that. So I had the chance today to run some of the particulars by the the Finance Board and Budget Review Board as we were meeting on the budget as a regular way, of course. And we've been giving updates,  you know, periodically throughout. Next slide. Next slide please. So what what  you're looking at now and the viewers at home can see all this. It's on the website. This is the the survey information  that from Goshen, when they put it out to respondents to basically see where they might want to go, go to school. It shows where it's interesting because they don't have any schools. All of the students who are in the public schools go to other schools and they have choice, and obviously some go to Newport. And just to summarize this, you can look at it at home.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Unity in Claremont, where some of the schools selected where folks might want to send their schools. We already have four students from from Goshen in the Claremont schools, and

[11056-80] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: at our in our country. New Hampshire's, you know, obviously betwixt for, Vermont and Maine and you can see that that it's, it's, it has moved to active as a state in imminent outbreak, as a state in the updated, items that you see there.
TEXT> But you can also see in the lower right hand corner. Sullivan County, okay, at 10.9 cases. And this was from the 30th, which was Monday when we put this started putting this information together for the board on next slide, please. We had we reached out to members in the community just to see what they were doing. And again, this is just this was from the 30th. Some of these things have changed. Some of these things were tangentially related to the situation  at at at Stevens, with families and students involved in kind of a great community, support and looking at quarantine and really working together. Closing some, some businesses for a short, short, short time. And this is just shows you what's going on in the community. And we wanted to put that out. We're going to try to do this again at each meeting. Other types of things that we show the community as well, because we were asked about feedback for that. The next slide is from the previous, presentation. And basically this is the criteria that that we use in determining for our plan. That, that that was spoken about before. This is the grit of low, medium and high impact student absenteeism and staff capacity to operate. And I'll give you some anecdotal advice. I also have some of the principals on standby. If the board has questions per school.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: They agreed to to be ready to answer those if asked. And so and again, this is the level of community transmission which has changed somewhat from before. And then

[11056-82] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: school facility, there have been very few of those in the state. Okay. I really want to say that it's hard to do. It's been very little transmission in schools in the state. We haven't had that. You would need three events in the school.
TEXT> We haven't had that yet. And it's important to know that what we did have close on Monday. And part of that, I think, was because of the, the quarantining that I'll get to when the slides coming up and that one where we took Monday and Tuesday off because and we released the students on Friday and sent out the message on Saturday. Following that up, in a kudos to Assistant Superintendent McGowan and leading that effort and that vigilance outstanding job is always. And I don't think we get a chance to say that publicly enough.  While the work that Donna is doing in leading that team. But,  we had we were at 14, eight, six or something like that in terms of our student absence on on Monday, it has come down okay. Today just to check it before to come on. It is coming down. That was a because students are returning from the quarantine. That worked effectively and proactively. Okay. So I can't say enough even as as Prescott said two people are being very serious about it within the schools. So so that's great. So the other part that's harder to quantify, both from a data perspective, because we have so many time clocks and things like that to see the actual staff absences,  is that there are impacts of, of medium to high strain and part of that strain.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: If we can go to the next slide, believe I have back up on that. So this is this is the actual pulled attendance report in the tail from from

[11056-83] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the other part that's harder to quantify, both from a data perspective, because we have so many time clocks and things like that to see the actual staff absences, is that there are impacts of, of medium to high strain and part of that strain.
TEXT> If we can go to the next slide, believe I have back up on that. So this is this is the actual pulled attendance report in the tail from from power school for students. You can see the 1486 down the bottom for the aggregate for for everything. And then the notes on, on the side. So the staff absences have been about 8 or 9% over the last three days. Parallel a little bit, a little bit higher, but normally that's 6 or 7%. It has been in the past month, the recent Covid cases and tracing right before Thanksgiving, the the incidents that we that we spoke about, and remember that that was not  it was not a cluster not even yet a cluster. But we did have in the team did a great job on the camera seeing who went where. Once they knew the the contacts, they really broke that down, separated the staff, immediately released the kids and there were it resulted in 3814 day quarantine for for the members of I won't say you know who it was or whatever. I promised I wouldn't mess up, okay,  but we don't want to identify that, for confidentiality, but but there were 38.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We can we're we're continuing to monitor this. And like I said, next week, I believe Thursday or Friday of next week, Doctor Chapman is going to come out and

[11056-112] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: quarantine not sick. Still able to teach. Can that teacher teach remotely. So the classes in school and the teachers via zoom with a pair of professional maybe facilitating somehow? Yeah. Just so the just the thought of, you know, kind of outside the box.
TEXT> Yeah. Great. Great question. So in and high school is a good example of that. And that's another capacity issue that we spoke about right now. And it also leads to the, the larger question of the ability to be synchronous and asynchronous. Right. So synchronous meaning just for those at home, not not in the lingua that you're, you're giving the instruction in the same time and space and rotation as the kid would normally circulate through the day  versus, you know, without a time restriction of the asynchronous and what's happening at. And we already have that in a few cases where we have some staff out and things like that, they are they are projecting into common spaces that are supervised in the, in the library, in other places. Principal Barry said she is the capacity of, of, of I think three, three people to be out in, in coming in that way to cover the kids that are in the room without going further down the line to take a para, to watch the bodies or the or the. You still need the management. And it's much tougher at the high school because there's really no teacher duties and not a lot of ways to to to just put anyone in there to assign that because they're teaching. So. So it's been a struggle and so far we're getting by. But that's another situation where it's only a matter of time.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: If you had a massive out it would really impact. And that also just getting ahead of where we are, that that's one of the factors. Where the recommendation for

[11056-113] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: teacher duties and not a lot of ways to to to just put anyone in there to assign that because they're teaching. So. So it's been a struggle and so far we're getting by. But that's another situation where it's only a matter of time.
TEXT> If you had a massive out it would really impact. And that also just getting ahead of where we are, that that's one of the factors. Where the recommendation for the middle and high, you know, in the future, I'm getting ahead of myself in the presentation might be to pivot towards in the second half of the year, being synchronous remote, okay, synchronous remote, not like we were at the end of last year when we were just kind of scrambling, getting out and figuring it out, but having a set schedule every day with the same. If everyone has that,  then there are somewhat efficiencies of scale or staggering that for two weeks on, two weeks off, just to kind of ride it out should it spike. And again, this is hypothetical if it spikes, but this is the rationale for that. And I'll get to some of those numbers in a bit there in the slides to come. But right now 43% of the students at Stephens High School are remote, right? Right now. And there's a graph in here that shows that increase. Since since we started school. And you'll you'll see that.  All right. So, again, this was this was the update. Next slide is the the hybrid and the substantial impact. This is from the first presentation.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And this is where we feel we're encroaching upon now in terms of the medium to high level in being a little bit beyond minimal into moderate and in some

[11056-130] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-02
PREV> Jason Benware: rules like that, then we're essentially we're punishing the wrong people. And I just I don't agree with that. So that's just my $0.02 on the notion of keeping kids out of school for two extra weeks, because we know people won't follow the rules.
TEXT> So  I. Feel opposite, which is not surprising, because you and I are often on different ends of the spectrum, but I feel like it's a punishment to those of us who do make the right decision to quarantine or to stay home or whatever we feel our right decision is. It's a punishment to those kids who do do the right thing and return to school and then are, surrounded by kids who maybe haven't or even staff. But I'm just going to put on the table. My feeling is when you tell people what they can and can't do, and then you expect them to do what you feel like they should do, you're putting a lot of merit in people in general. And like I said earlier, and, you know, on social media, I don't think people, you know, mean to be untruthful. But I do think that putting them in that situation is going to back people in a corner. And there may be scenarios where people do travel and then they don't share that information or, you know, their kids go somewhere and they tell their kids not to share that information, as we have seen in my own school, because kids come to school and tell you.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So, I think it's not so much about penalizing those of us who are not going to travel and who are going to do what we feel is right. I

[11056-134] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (cluster also carries clerk roll calls,  | 2020-12-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Services website that and when I look particularly at Claremont and our 12 active cases, it clearly said that any time there was less than 25 cases, there's insufficient data to actually draw any statistically meaningful conclusion of what that increase or decrease actually means.
TEXT> So that gives me a little bit of a pause to, how much weight I'm going to put on our local uptick. And in particular, in Sullivan County, 25 cases are from a single long term care facility and not necessarily community transmission. My other real concern is that, we have yet to hear, with any kind of decisiveness, what the impression is insofar as how remote learning has positively or negatively negatively impacted, children's learning. So if we're suggesting that we're going to remove in school education for a substandard or an ineffective, I know it's it's better than nothing. But unless I am given data otherwise, I have to assume that remote education is not as, impactful as in-person education. And so if there's a real will of the board  to, in an effort to protect the community, whether that's guided or misguided,  I would I would have to say, if it's the will of the board that we we do that break, that we actually do a true break, meaning no instruction either remote or in person. And instead we take away the April and February vacation and replace that with in school education, like don't take don't take those vacations. So we don't lose those two weeks of  in-house education.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I was watching TV the other day and, I noticed that Lebanon Middle School went to full remote, I believe. Rebecca, you're in that district. Is it full remote?

[11056-143] Unidentified | Unidentified - speaker not determinable from the record (cluster defau | 2020-12-02
PREV> Prescott Herzog: where things are. And so I think when we're talking about this conversation, not just talking about, you know, the the students who are fully in remote or fully in person, there is this middle line of people who are anticipating and going back in.
TEXT> I think the difference is that when you have kids in and out, that makes a huge difference. We're talking about all kids being remote, so the teacher will teach to all of our kids versus having some of the kids in the classroom doing the class work, and some of you on Google, so it'll be together.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: I mean, like when it comes to like the two week break, if hypothetically, you know, people come in with cases and we have to have another round, those students

[11056-155] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: I think. Pat, Pat, did you have something to say?
TEXT> Yeah, I. Would like to share that, to Carolyn's point and also to Mr. Patrons point and to Prescott's point. Right now we have 44% of our students  who  are remote. And in our current schedule, those students get one hour a week with their teacher. And so we are at a point where we're nearing half of our student population who is not getting the kind of instruction  that Heather's talking about, the kind of instruction that Prescott is seeing, that he while he was out and to the point where we had eight teachers out of the building both Monday and Tuesday for a combination of they are already teaching remote or they were quarantined, etc., etc.. We are doing our best with having teachers teach in remotely from home if they are well enough to do that, or if their circumstances are other than because they're out sick. And we've really utilized and maximized staff. I'm really proud of what we've been able to do, but I've been in the classes teaching. It has been all hands on deck.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: A lot of about 2 to 3 families a day are opting to pull their students out from Stevens because of their concerns of the numbers in the community and

[11056-156] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2020-12-02
PREV> Patricia Barry: to do that, or if their circumstances are other than because they're out sick. And we've really utilized and maximized staff. I'm really proud of what we've been able to do, but I've been in the classes teaching. It has been all hands on deck.
TEXT> A lot of about 2 to 3 families a day are opting to pull their students out from Stevens because of their concerns of the numbers in the community and  the chart that superintendent showed you as part of his presentation showed how our our numbers rose from November 9th to, as of today, going to 44% of students not in the building and making that choice  mostly because of fear of contracting. So the trend is that those numbers are increasing, and my concerns are that those students who only have that limited amount of time with their teachers on a weekly basis, are not getting the same level of instruction as the other students. Ideally, everybody would get the same amount of time, attention, dedication. It's not built into our schedule right now, and that's what concerns me. So whatever we we do to keep our students safe, not overreact. I mean, ideally, we want everybody back in the building. We had an issue today. And students were. You're not sending us home, Mrs. Barry, are you? I said no, they clearly want to be in school. And they're doing they're doing all the things they need to do.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: They're wearing their masks. They're playing by the rules. The kids are great, and they want to be there. So, you know, I'm supportive of whatever we need to do,

[11056-157] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2020-12-02
PREV> Patricia Barry: want everybody back in the building. We had an issue today. And students were. You're not sending us home, Mrs. Barry, are you? I said no, they clearly want to be in school. And they're doing they're doing all the things they need to do.
TEXT> They're wearing their masks. They're playing by the rules. The kids are great, and they want to be there. So, you know, I'm supportive of whatever we need to do, but our capacity  is nearing a stretching point. And, you know, if the if the break can mitigate that so that we can come back fully sooner. I think that would be great.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Go ahead. Mike.

[11056-165] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: And why are they, you know, why is the high school so much higher? I guess as a percentage.
TEXT> I, I, I, I, I don't have I think that's a that can be a combination of things. I do think that students I can't I don't have a definitive this is in a, in my impression of this right now. So  without the research on it, I do know the I think it's a myriad of issues. I think some of those some of the students, when we know this from our tracing and from talking to talking to kids, we have we have students who are out in the community working sometimes many hours helping their families out through the crisis. Carrying all their, you know, doing their, their schoolwork of the day. And they need to do that in their families need to do that. We have, I think it might be working better for them, for that, for that balance. That would be my impression of it. And I also think some of them are more, the higher up that you are  in, in via grade level, the more appropriate is and the more you're ramping up for that expectation for college in the workplace anyway.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So I think there's that's a natural situation I want to be clear at this point has been made several times by board members, principals. And they'll they'll echo that

[11056-173] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (cluster also carries clerk roll calls,  | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other comments, Heather.
TEXT> Just to just looking for more clarification. I guess one of my biggest concerns was, is that we're we're supplanting in classroom education for remote education. Another additional two weeks of total remote education for all students. And we haven't heard the effect of what the effect of our hybrid approach and our full remote approach has been. Up to this point. I have no benchmark by which to work with  whether or not we're actually doing our our  children of service, by having them get remote education versus no education and additional in-person education, which I was suggesting, if we if the will of the board is to give this two week gap after the holidays, I'm not sure that it's the best thing to just give remote education as a default for another two weeks. Another two weeks of the year. I mean, yeah, do you understand what I'm saying? And then additionally, I really have this, this, this gut reaction that are we actually protecting the students and the staff if our issue is compliance of families? Because I know what you're saying, Rebecca. But honestly, if you're going to travel around things Christmas, you're going to, you know, no matter who's sick or who wants to visit.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That's not true. That's not true.

[11056-177] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Jason Benware: Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> I mean, I can respond to what was addressed. So in terms of having a kind of a comprehensive study of both cohort groups before and after in as action research, during all this, we don't have I don't think and as as we know you you are a test. And in the science science field, we don't have definitive data showing that that increase in the short turnaround to do that, it's it's tough enough to manage everything and do this. So we don't have that. But we do have and that I feel strongly about is. In what we're also looking to achieve right with. And we've talked about the community, but I want I want to talk about our own staff who are the lifeblood. There's no no substitute for a teacher in leading with the right curriculum and things like that. We do know that we wouldn't be able to have them broadcast remotely in a synchronous way, so that all the kids and all the platforms are getting equal exposure to those concepts for the same amount of time period.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Do I think it's I wholeheartedly agree, as I think everyone does. There's no substitute for the old way and the interaction and all the other stuff. But what it

[11056-178] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: curriculum and things like that. We do know that we wouldn't be able to have them broadcast remotely in a synchronous way, so that all the kids and all the platforms are getting equal exposure to those concepts for the same amount of time period.
TEXT> Do I think it's  I wholeheartedly agree, as I think everyone does. There's no substitute for the old way and the interaction and all the other stuff. But what it but what it does do and this is what we're fighting the entire year is it builds enough time to have them come back for the second round. Okay. In in everyone's healthy and every everyone can access that. And I guess that's what I, my, I'm an optimist by nature, but I, I'm, I'm also pragmatic and we just haven't seen everyone follow the rules all, all the way up. And I don't think we're going to everyone's point, but I, I, I'm just looking to preserve the capacity of all of our outstanding educators  and our kids as long as possible. And I we do think this this will enable that to happen for a longer period of time. That's that's it. We wouldn't we wouldn't have brought it to you if we didn't as a team. You know, in the field every day, observing the kids think it was worthwhile. I promise you that. We wouldn't do that, Rebecca.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thanks. Someone made a really good point at being a. Someone who works at a school and who has children who attend school. You're expecting all the teachers to go

[11056-180] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: we're going to be serious and we're going to be proactive right now, then let's work through April vacation or February or something like that. Makes complete sense to me, 100%. So just something to think about. But what about what about staff with kids?
TEXT> And so we we know and I spoke to Superintendent Landry and Fall Mountain this morning driving in. We all, you know, speak regularly and asked exactly those questions. How are you working out those details? There is some give and take in that because ultimately what what the balance is, particularly in these quarantine situations as they're coming to I think you alluded that to that as well, Mr. Patron, is we don't want  we don't want, you know, we want to be able to have as much continuity for all students. So it might be the case  in, in the expand on the other examples where a teacher can teach when they're on quarantine and they're not feeling sick and all the other things, we're not preventing that in any way, shape or form. We're we're supporting that as best we can in the situation where someone is bringing their would have to bring a kid in on a temporary basis. We don't want that to happen, and that's very tough to manage. And we might be able to sub that because we are. But we will also use our common sense knowing that we want to we want the show to go on, so to speak. Right. So, and there's no simple formula for that. And everything is a, a haggle and a concession.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It has been since the, the advent of all of this. So, but but we, we think it's, it's, it's appropriate to do that. We also have some apparatus in

[11056-182] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: appropriate to do that. We also have some apparatus in the buildings, cameras, speakers. And we're looking to expand those things too, so that there's a nice connectivity. And we really want to push that as well. That is part of our technology plan. So.
TEXT> As far as I mean, when we bring up teachers having kids that would go remote, every working parents would have kids that would have to be remote  and would have to figure out some way to care for those kids. Well, they go to work. So it's not it's not a hardship on just teachers. It's a hardship on every working parent. So, every working it's no different for  someone that works at the hospital, someone that works at the 711, come to the fire, not 711 but every working parent would have to find some sort of care for their kids. And it may even be the fact that we're pushing more of the kids, well, the remote, into daycare and getting exposed to I mean, these kids go to daycare, a lot of them are going to daycare anyways, but on those remote days their pushed into daycare and getting exposed to each other anyways.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So we don't typically take public input during our deliberations. Sorry. Other comments from the board.

[11056-246] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: in the essence of. And we'll come back with more details on this, as it's already been surfaced in this presentation of what actually constitutes what type of education are we getting face to face versus in the counterpoint, what we might have, virtually okay.
TEXT> In a synchronous model. Right. So for example, in the elementary schools, they're just not using stations, rotations, other types of things.  It's tough to prep in the rooms with their materials around. You can pull everything from the classroom and pack in a couple more chairs, but  they're just going to be it's not the same source of instruction. They feel that's been incredibly compromised. So that that was one the recommendations as well are varied. For the middle and high school, they would be to go full remote synchronous, following the courses as they rotate in the schedule. That very different that we've had a chance to do. And they also feel like they have the time to ramp up our professional development. And the courses teachers have been have been taking, I have have ramped up a lot of skills with that. Conversely, it's really important to know this. There are other classes that we feel aren't appropriate, and it's a far cry for the kids in the tech center classes, the applied hands on classes. Drama, music, performance, some special ed programs, OTP related services, and things of the like. We would still be able to have those. And this was part of our all the work we did in the summer.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We, we we did have a model where that we wanted to present, but it wasn't enough infection. It was nowhere near where it is. And we and we tabled

[11056-254] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: way through some of the guidance on that from the state as to what you can use. And some of the original language still stands, even though we know it has to be revisited. So those those are things we're working on as well. Yes.
TEXT> So just just another one, just another one along those lines. So I'm trying to think about how to word it. So are there any requirements from the state about student participation. Because I know there's a lot of parents out there myself being one of them, you know, a couple of years ago, who on the snow days, there's no way that I'm going to be able to, you know, people work like everybody keeps saying. So when there's snow days, typically parents have to make arrangements for the kids to go to the babysitter or whatever. So is there a rule on participation by students? Kind of like the whole Blizzard bag concept, because I feel like we might be falling short in that area.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So as far as I know, either through the commissioner or the governor, and I think Donna might be even closer to this. I still think the original five day

[11056-258] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Same. Same. Yeah. Districts all around are struggling with the same exact thing. We don't have clear guidance yet.
TEXT> So so just one more comment about that. It's just so weird to me that we switched to remote. Sorry. It's weird to me that we would switch to remote learning  and I'm struggling this with with this myself for my own school district. But it's weird that we would switch to remote learning on a snow day,  and then we would take away an in-person learning day at the end of the school year. Do you know what I mean? Like, it makes more sense to to keep the snow day and then have the kids come to school in person, you know, just like we regularly would. I don't understand the full thinking behind remote on snow days. I really don't.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Right with you, I could make a I used to ask.

[11056-267] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: To you're still.
TEXT> How could that happen. Okay there I am. All right. So so to to come back after after. Well that's that's changed. So but when, when we do come back to, go synchronous, live in a substantial way to combat the anticipated,  you know, uptick in stay remote for the cohorts, for March  to April 12th, between March 1st and April 12th. The rationale behind that is the consistency of instruction, with the broadcasting teachers reporting to school broadcasting out. This is the other rationales that went into it. If kids are particularly high school, okay. In some middle school. Those kids, the other demands on their schedule might be more conducive to that. They also may be able to help out with siblings at home, freeing working  parents. All all the that was our that's our our rationale. And we also are anticipating again, all of this is premised upon the strain that we're seeing initially without even getting into more infections transmission in schools notably. It's not there yet, but we're anticipating that that could ramp up. So that that's a rationale. I think it's very wise and premature to vote on this.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Now. We don't have the data. We also entertained, maybe a structure where they went a couple on, a couple off, and we staggered it, as the entire intent of

[11056-289] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: look, it's positive. So once that's done, once I have that conversation with them, because I can't go on somebody else's say so that so-and-so said that this person has Covid, I have to speak to the to the family or to the person directly.
TEXT> Once I find that out, I talked to them about when did your symptoms start and when did you get tested from that point, that lets me know when I need to start contact tracing. So if it's someone that I know it's going to impact the school, I immediately start contact tracing that day, as we saw on the Friday where we had to release the high school kids, that something is sent out immediately and parents are notified and families are notified, and we take care of it immediately. The second part of what I do is I need to contact da HS because I have to have a conversation with them. They're also the ones that verify. Yes. This is not a false positive. We have had false positives in the past,  and I don't want to send out an alert if I know it's not impacting our student body of our students, our our kids or anyone. I you know, I when da s contacts me or I contact them, I want to make sure that I'm not alerting the public of something that a little while later, I'm going to have to take back and say, oh, I'm sorry. It was verified that it was a false positive because we've had those before in the past. And so when I know it's not going to impact, I definitely wait a little bit longer just to hear that.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Yes, this is definitely a positive. Sometimes the people send me their results and I see it right there and black and white dotted it. You know what it is?

[11056-290] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: take back and say, oh, I'm sorry. It was verified that it was a false positive because we've had those before in the past. And so when I know it's not going to impact, I definitely wait a little bit longer just to hear that.
TEXT> Yes, this is definitely a positive. Sometimes the people send me their results and I see it right there and black and white dotted it. You know what it is? Once that's done, I work with DHHS and a team of us get together, you know, whether it be in the high school or wherever it would be to start the process of contact tracing. You know, and when we go through that, we look at where was the child or where was the staff member. You know, we do cameras. We do. There's a huge process that goes through. We always try to send out something to families. As soon as we know that this is factual information, it goes out quicker. If we know that it's going to impact students.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Because we, you know, if we're going to have to I don't want to just release kids and then parents be like, why am I getting all these kids? Why

[11056-291] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: know, we do cameras. We do. There's a huge process that goes through. We always try to send out something to families. As soon as we know that this is factual information, it goes out quicker. If we know that it's going to impact students.
TEXT> Because we, you know, if we're going to have to I don't want to just release kids and then parents be like, why am I getting all these kids? Why are all the kids leaving the high school? So we do  send something out? Well, we start that process, but if it's something that's not going to impact the community, the students, and I know that those people have been isolated or are isolated, then I can wait to hear from DHHS a little bit longer to find out what the steps are, because I know that someone say I, you know, been reading some of the comments and why is it that you're letting everyone know today that you're outing this today after somebody brought it to your attention? That's not the case. That is not the case. I will, I tell you that we work very hard and we get every detail that we possibly can. We send out letters to families that have, you know, have to have to self-quarantine on the process. We call them directly. There's a lot that goes into doing this. And so I don't want people just to think that, it's, you know, we're holding off because by no means are we holding off, whether it be at the saw or at the the elementary schools or middle schools or high school. We're on this as soon as we hear.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I just want a second with on it. Just say the my daughter was in close contact and had to quarantine for two weeks and got very effective and quick

[11106-42] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Petrin: Seeing. Is there anything?
TEXT> Nothing. Seeing nothing. We will move on to our general business with the student. Our student report.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: So the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center, the machine tool lab has a new machine. This 36 $0 machine was purchased through the Perkins Federal and State grants. This

[11106-43] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board (Stevens High School) | 2020-12-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Nothing. Seeing nothing. We will move on to our general business with the student. Our student report.
TEXT> So the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center, the machine tool lab has a new machine. This 36 $0 machine was purchased through the Perkins Federal and State grants.  This will offer our students an excellent opportunity to gain machining skills on state of the art manufacturing equipment. And the Claremont. Sorry, the carbon deconstruction program can build a shed for you. Contact the  server River Valley Regional Technical Center for more information. It's a great way to teach students basic home building. At Stevens High School, students and staff have been participating in the Student Council Spirit Week. The themes for each day have been Pajama Santas workshop, Christmas vacation. Underclassmen versus Juniors and Seniors, and Ugly Sweater. As we head into winter break, this is a friendly reminder to make sure to check out the class of 2020 to 21 scholarship Google Classroom.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: There have been several new scholarships posted in the last few weeks, including the Cotter Foundation Scholarship. Many of these scholarships have really January and February deadlines, and if you

[11106-52] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. If you're in the top half of your class, you should be applying for that. Okay. Superintendent report.
TEXT> All right. So, I just want to. Take the. Opportunity before I start my superintendent's. Report to. Congratulate.  Put them on the spot and the well-deserved praise. And for Prescott Herzog, our student rep,  who had some great news this afternoon that he has been accepted at Dartmouth.  And, we're very proud of you. And it's it's it's amazing. And one. Oh, it's even better if I'm not muted I like oh you get.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: To hear it all again.

[11106-59] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Unidentified: Oh.
TEXT> Aspirations has since. Good for you. Congratulations. That's fantastic. We're proud of you. As we all. All of our. All of our kids. Yeah. Superintendent support. All right. So, Sure. So the the the first page that I'd like to point out to folks  are and I have a graphic in there that I'll talk about, but I want to recap, I know we had the opportunity to talk about this during the SA six meeting, but many of the, of  the, viewers and participants in tonight's meeting may not have been involved in that meeting. So I want to just speak to in the first, the first slide, shows scenes from when Doctor Steve Chapman from the Dartmouth Chads program came out, lent us his time and his expertise. He's been amazing  and coming out, and we asked him to look at at our rooms and our protocols and talk to nurses and principals and, and teachers. And I think he he said some amazing things that really, you know, were well received by the staff, particularly speaking about how safe schools are when you in terms of overall protocols and what's going on, it's a safe place to be, sometimes safer than even the home and other types of things where you may have many visitors to the home and things like that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So and I also put up there with a little, little shout out, a little, little happy dance, even though things are spiking a little bit throughout the state and

[11106-63] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: County down towards the mass line, those are upwards of 80 infections plus or between 80 and 90 infections per so much, much higher. And it's it's definitely a better scenario, particularly in the terms of the risk of oak break that you see there.
TEXT> So we're we're excited about that. We're excited. We apparently haven't haven't seen that. We haven't had any more cases I don't believe in that entire time. Right. So we're we're we're over the moon with that. It's it's great news. Going  forward  to the. Oh, there it is. The 15th. I'm sorry, I know I had one more and it dipped down to 15. Two  if. Can you go forward one slide. Mr.. Hold it, I missed one.  Oh, no.  I'm all right on a snowy day. I'm sorry. Yeah. So this is, and I put this in there because I had the, I, I had the amazing opportunity. Today is a long day today.  Spent a lot of it with some board members and some budget meetings, forums. And now tonight.  But started the day this morning a little bit before eight down down at Maple, picking up my copy of The Snowy Day. And I had the opportunity to read to some folks in there and love loved that book. One of my favorites to read to my kids from back in the day. Won't say how long ago, but it was at least a couple of decades. And, we spoke about the snowy day talks about when there's a snowy day, what the young man does.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And I kind of owned up to the kids than I think even the board in the forums that right around that time we had already corresponded with the DPI

[11106-64] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: my favorites to read to my kids from back in the day. Won't say how long ago, but it was at least a couple of decades. And, we spoke about the snowy day talks about when there's a snowy day, what the young man does.
TEXT> And I kind of owned up to the kids than I think even the board in the forums that right around that time we had already corresponded with the DPI w done all the snow day things and saw the, the outlook for tomorrow being steady from both 2 to 3 a.m. all the way into the mid afternoon.  We were on the line for the 3 to 6 and 6 to 8. No one really knows and no one will say. But safe enough for it to be an old school snow day. So you already have that message by now. But I alluded to them because, that it may be coming into check in around 615, but it was our secret. And some of them told their parents right in the room, the people that were in hybrid. It was pretty funny. So it was it was funny. So it was fun to do. Okay. Next slide please. And then this is the travel guidance. Just to reiterate,  for the upcoming break and things like that. The newest iteration, I know Donna sent this out to everyone. It's it's online and it talks about the quarantines and also the self-testing has changed a little, if you don't mind elaborating on that. Donald, please.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: No, not at all. So now so a couple of changes, important changes that have been made is that the, the first one is the student exposure. So if a

[11106-90] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: or so at the, at a high school level and spread them in with very little staff needed. But you also know that that would be an infusion of, of, of several hundred thousand dollars in which we could get more teachers if we wanted.
TEXT> So, that's that's the situation.  Next slide please. These are just survey results and targeted presentations that that we had. Next slide please. Mr.. Mr.. Small this was an interesting and I asked Superintendent Minahan if I could share this publicly. And basically they need for their budgeting. So it is it is a loss to them. So they recently sent out a survey and, and and these were the results of that of the 39 going out. This is where I came with about ten potential students may go to May go to unity next year.  But but most of the students would remain in that current current situation.
NEXT> Unidentified: We're not being heard there. I'm sorry, I can't do.

[11106-98] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Yeah, they did in Goshen also voted unanimously to do that. And we we have to get the signed copies back soon and then we're going to post it online. So all right so next, next slide that I have comes to it is the, the, the first slide of the current enrollment of where people are in what percentage. What percentage of students in each grade configuration  have, what percentage are excuse me are remote of the, of the student body percentage. And what I want to say tonight is that we're looking for a motion on. We can talk talk about those that was tabled before I did have the opportunity to the two things that we're looking to vote on is, we have incomplete, survey information that we're going to extend the survey. We only have a 48.5%,  response rates. I think that has gone up a little bit to just over 50 based on what we have today. But we want to extend that for another week to see what our numbers are exactly aligning at, as to which remote folks may want to come back in full. What we've seen as a ratio that hasn't changed from the initial response response is about 9 to 1, where they want to to stay in their current configuration, either staying remote.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So it's not as impactful as we thought, but we haven't seen the full sample. So we don't want to move forward. But what we are seeing is positive. And

[11106-113] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And so, in balance with schedule. So, so it was great to have them in. And we're, we're talking about and I want to make sure that I don't miss anything because I also like that check and balance. Principal Barry has a commitment tonight.
TEXT> It won't be able to to come in, but I think we can get we heard from some staff members, from some teachers, from the remote teacher, other teachers. And we can look at this, this chart of of the students and cohort. See we see it going to almost half the school is in cohort C or going out, you know, coming in remotely. And I think also we could we can extrapolate on, on some of these numbers as it related to specific teachers. So a couple of teachers spoke about their, Challenges. Their, their challenges and, and also exactly their class list of how many kids, what percentage of theirs, and at least a couple of them, anecdotally, they exceeded they went about 60% remote.  And what was striking was what they were talking about was that kids who aren't making effective progress, okay. Which we know what's challenging, we know that we're going to this. But they also spoke about the number of total hours that students have and what may be a disincentive for students who and if you can go to the next slide, Mr..
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Mike, I just want to let you know to that it just came in that, actually, as of today, 48% of the students, 248 students at Stevens are remote. Paula

[11106-114] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: okay. Which we know what's challenging, we know that we're going to this. But they also spoke about the number of total hours that students have and what may be a disincentive for students who and if you can go to the next slide, Mr..
TEXT> Mike, I just want to let you know to that it just came in that, actually, as of today, 48% of the students, 248 students at Stevens are remote. Paula just sent me a okay. So 48% of the students right now.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, she got.

[11106-117] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Unidentified: It.
TEXT> In the next one. So so the so right now we have 48 remote is  as Donna said, if you look at the current schedule in the left hand column, this is the part that really  struck me. Right. So the way the the way. And remember this wasn't the plan with the 4x4 block schedule. We started with the 4x4 block to try to first we had the hybrid  A model. Then we went to the the block model to get as much in as we could for students,  and we ended up with 465 minute blocks on Monday, Tuesday and Friday, 365 minute blocks for a total of 1040 minutes a week. Right. Which is is a 17.5 hours a week. And that's for the students who are in there in person. For the students who are remote, there's 465 minute blocks a week in there. Asynchronous. Okay.  So there's there's only four, 4.3 hours a week that they're getting. And that's it. And it's it's a synchronous. They're posting them. It's like a correspondence. It's a lot like as as it's been told to me it might even exceed V okay. But it's not exactly what.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's not exactly what we had hoped. So the proposal that that they, they have and and I want to talk about this proposal because we also had some parents.

[11106-118] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: four, 4.3 hours a week that they're getting. And that's it. And it's it's a synchronous. They're posting them. It's like a correspondence. It's a lot like as as it's been told to me it might even exceed V okay. But it's not exactly what.
TEXT> It's not exactly what we had hoped. So the proposal that that they, they have and and I want to talk about this proposal because we also had some parents. Talk about in I know they, we had emails and some correspondence back and forth with a couple parents talking about, the fact which which we openly admit we're new to  1 to 1, we're new to, learning platforms. We have it as a focus of our professional development this year. We have technology integration lists that offer a variety of PD things. We spoke about some of these things in the meeting today as well.  But we're newer. We're not Kearsarge. We're not a district that's been doing it for 3 or 4 years or Fall Mountain. That's been been 1 to 1 platforms. Somewhat maybe out of the necessity of their regions and their clientele. But, we are newer to it and we do have a ways to go. So but we feel like the best in what we heard from parents. And we heard even during the forum today from a parent who was at an elementary level speak about they have two high school students,  and they give you double thumbs up. When they talked about going to the synchronous, instruction in the same routine every day for the students versus the a synchronous. And that's for all students. Yes.
NEXT> Unidentified: Just for the benefit of the people at home. Could you describe what you mean by synchronous just so everybody knows exactly what that would be.

[11106-120] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Unidentified: Just for the benefit of the people at home. Could you describe what you mean by synchronous just so everybody knows exactly what that would be.
TEXT> My my bad. Yeah. So synchronous means the same time synchronized like a normal day. So asynchronous  without without the same. Those are kind of set like we had at the early stages of remote where you had to get the work completed during a time period. The synchronous is direct instruction to the degree that we can, can can do that, mimicking what would happen in a typical day so that they would  have a good portion of that 65 minute period where it's a teacher lecture, there's work. Kids have broken out into  a jigsaw and other types of configurations, and the expectation is that you have to be present during that time. You have to participate just like you're in the classroom. And this is where I want to get it. Exactly. Like as we heard from the counselor, the principal and the teachers when we have those days. So it would be like a typical it would be like the Monday. Right. So you would have 15 minute advisory, 65 minute flex, and then the four periods, the total for all students. And this is what's dramatic. And what really got me was how in the phrase was we're racking up kids failures. We don't know where we're going to be for credit.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And the point was made by by a couple of folks that when a kid knows they only have five hours in there and they may not be the most

[11106-121] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: advisory, 65 minute flex, and then the four periods, the total for all students. And this is what's dramatic. And what really got me was how in the phrase was we're racking up kids failures. We don't know where we're going to be for credit.
TEXT> And the point was made by by a couple of folks that when a kid knows they only have five hours in there and they may not be the most motivated student anyway, or may have chosen to be remote for different for other reasons. Okay. All these topics came up in our conversation this afternoon.  Then there's not a lot of incentive to be in there. But if they are in there with their peer group more often  and and we can check on them more often and send people out to the house if that's the case, if they're not attending or this, that in a bunch of other interventions they have, then everyone is bolstered immediately. And I also want to make the pitch that the goal for this,  particularly in terms of equity, it's not even the predominant reason is not,  although it was a point that they made, it's not really the control infection as much as it is to to intervene with the kids who are, who are not made any success at all in this environment. So in the equity that everyone can get something with the hopes that everything comes back with the vaccine, and we're looking at everyone coming back in the last quarter. Yes.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So just for clarification.

[11106-153] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (arrived late) | 2020-12-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Jason.
TEXT> So I'm going to just stick to the high school discussion.  I have a fundamental problem with taking 50% of the kids we seem to know is working 52%. I guess somewhere around there who are attending  every day  and it seems to be working  and then taking those kids and then putting them into a remote, whether it be synchronous or not, learning experience, enrolling the base and hoping that works better for them, or at least equally as well. I would be much more  in support of doing something. I would absolutely back doing something like. I mean, Mike and Heather were suggesting, I mean, if we have the technology to synchronously have a teacher  teach in front of a computer with nobody present, then what changes it with with students present?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We don't have that at that scale like the elementary that we do at the high school. So it's, you still have the same teacher imparting the same specific lesson.

[11106-155] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (arrived late) | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We don't have that at that scale like the elementary that we do at the high school. So it's, you still have the same teacher imparting the same specific lesson. So I don't know that I'm understanding.
TEXT> I'm simply asking if there's a teacher in a classroom teaching a group of students, why can't the kids at home who are, if you put them in that cohort, join that class remotely?  That's that's all I'm asking.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I do I do know that some of the teachers on the call today said that they do that.

[11106-162] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-12-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: I see we would get from them would be coverage at the other schools. So because I know that there's a there's a crisis around that as far as people missing school principals having to cover classes, people out for mandatory quarantine, things like that.
TEXT> So you, you, you automatically gain a pool of people to help cover that. At least if I were in charge, that's what I would be thinking about. Another another thing would be, the opportunity with those staff, the, the student, monitor at the high school, for example, there's not chasing kids in the school anymore. So let's, and I know other states have done this,  particularly Vermont there. And somebody and a couple of people mentioned it in the the roundtable today is this if someone's not showing up, they're trying. And so if their expectation is everybody's going to be at a certain point, then they're trying. And so Terry Casey gets involved. Guidance counselors get involved. And I think if you go to cohort everybody's in cohort. See you've what are the secretaries doing. What's the attendance secretary doing. And full court press on those kids. You also need to think about, triage for those kids who are failing first semester. So those you have to free up people to be able to meet with those kids and develop a schedule for second semester in which they can recover, either pick up another section of what if there's another section second semester, pick that up, readjust their schedule so they can do some of their credit recovery second semester.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I see some advantages with it. If you free up some staff to help out in the other schools to to really buckle down on second semester, make sure

[11106-163] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-12-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: with those kids and develop a schedule for second semester in which they can recover, either pick up another section of what if there's another section second semester, pick that up, readjust their schedule so they can do some of their credit recovery second semester.
TEXT> So I see some advantages with it. If you free up some staff to help out in the other schools to to really  buckle down on second semester, make sure it really happens. But I also think that, very, very quick story. I don't want to get into too many stories, but I had a kid at Stevens once who was late for first period every single day. Every day was late, and we were giving them detentions, giving them detentions. Finally, I brought him in. I said, what is going on? So it turns out that his little sister, it lived about. They lived on Pearl Street. The little girl was going to bluff. First grader too far to walk. Mom had health problems to close to ride the bus. So the kids stand home to walk his little sister to school every day. So he gets to school. It's like a block. And so sometimes there's there are things going on and you think it's a I don't want to, but there are other circumstances going on. So I worry about connectivity. I know that anybody that lives near where I live, you can't if somebody's streaming, you can't even check your email  at my house, and there are people with kids on my road.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And it only gets worse as you go farther up Piper Hill. So. And I know where Rebecca lives. Same thing. So I worry about connectivity. And I mentioned it

[11106-165] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-12-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: or live toward Charlestown or live toward unity? So I think, I think that there's a there's an upside. But I am concerned with the downsides, and I do I do perfectly understand what's been said here tonight. And I kind of want it. Mike.
TEXT> So I was I kind of made a list earlier today. Some of what we heard also was kids going remote because of their work schedules, that that holds no weight to me. A kid in high school, my daughter works, you know, kids in high school work. Your school becomes comes before your work. And I know, you know, someone may get on missing during Covid. Parents are having struggle with. But high school your school is first. So saying that the kid is going remote in order to meet their work schedule is it's not okay. What  a big piece of what we're missing. And it sounds small. I talked to my daughter and should probably shoot me for bringing her up to tonight, but I talked to my daughter this afternoon. A big part of what we're missing, and it's already scaled back. Right now, with masking and social distancing is the social emotional part. The high school experience has been diminished already, and sending kids to full remote is going to have a very negative impact on some of these kids in their social emotional development. Again, you're probably hate me, but talking to my daughter and she's not the only one thinking about this brought her to tears this afternoon, and I, I mean, it's not just about my child, it's about every child.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I think there's a way we can split the difference in if it's not the best. I mean, we're doing a zoom meeting. We have people at home participating. If

[11106-166] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Petrin: kids in their social emotional development. Again, you're probably hate me, but talking to my daughter and she's not the only one thinking about this brought her to tears this afternoon, and I, I mean, it's not just about my child, it's about every child.
TEXT> I think there's a way we can split the difference in if it's not the best. I mean, we're doing a zoom meeting. We have people at home participating. If we can do it. I know it's different. It's bigger, but  a teacher with a laptop and a camera is better than nothing. So, I, I just think that, you know, we're focused just on the class and that that high school experience is a huge part of it, of growing up in kids learning. I also heard the current remote attendance is, you know, teachers offer the kids and they get, offer the kids, you know, that direct classroom experience. And they had half the kids that they make the offer to attend the. So is it a choice? It's not mandatory. I would make, in my opinion. I would  doing a Google Meet during your your math class with a laptop is better than nothing. You make it mandatory that you know, if you get a note or a letter from the parents, say my Wi-Fi sucks so my kid can't be on, then they're truly remote. But I there's got to be a way.  And as for this only being the third quarter, I'm not sure what's going to change between during the third quarter to make us make us go back for the fourth quarter.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So that's kind of a long list. But I've really been thinking hard about this. So I kind of ramble a little bit, but that's where I'm at.

[11106-182] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2020-12-16
PREV> Unidentified: Program.
TEXT> Life skills program at the high school, the intention would be for that to remain in person, business as usual. And then for some of the, you know, special ed services that don't translate well, like speech therapy or OT or PT, again, the tension would be to transport those kids in or have them walk or parents bring them in and deliver those  face to face, you know, in-person services. If if a service can be  delivered remotely, more than likely it would be delivered remotely. But but I think we do have a little bit of flexibility here. At least that's been our our message and our approach all along is, you know, to, to treat this population, you know, as they should be treated equity.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So the, the main issue there's two issues. I have this first is that no assurance. For me that this is going to add value to any cohort. And the

[11106-183] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-12-16
PREV> Ben Nester: would be delivered remotely. But but I think we do have a little bit of flexibility here. At least that's been our our message and our approach all along is, you know, to, to treat this population, you know, as they should be treated equity.
TEXT> So the, the main issue there's two issues. I have this first is that no assurance. For me  that this is going to add value to any cohort. And the reason I say that is I've been a bit advocate of in-person education since the beginning, and I did a lot of literature review way back when and in the best of circumstances, as you know, and as you've said over and over again, remote learning is suboptimal in the best of circumstances, and the only group of kids is that seem to be very successful or highly motivated students that want to move in their own pace, or students with social anxiety issues. There's like a very limited group of students that actually benefit from a remote or alternative learning situation.  And so for me, there's just no assurance that the kids that are going to be going to remote from the current in school model that are not going to lose ground. So that's my big fear, is that everything I read and the most recent data that's been gathered is that, like in New York City, 43% of students don't log in.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I mean, these are these are big urban areas with the connectivity where all the support with the dollars and people just aren't showing up. So we're risking the kids

[11106-184] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-12-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: remote from the current in school model that are not going to lose ground. So that's my big fear, is that everything I read and the most recent data that's been gathered is that, like in New York City, 43% of students don't log in.
TEXT> I mean, these are these are big urban areas with the connectivity where all the support with the dollars and people just aren't showing up. So we're risking the kids that are showing up, not showing up. So we can have increased instructional hours. But if they're not increased instructional hours, but if they're not showing up for those hours, you're just throwing that out the window anyway. The only compelling argument I've really heard is Frank's argument with being able to utilize staff to plug holes elsewhere, and that was compelling to me, Frank. But it doesn't help the high school. So if the high school is the area that's struggling, which I agree with you 100%, then then all the resources should be staying there. So if somebody could give me some, I just don't hear any assurances that it's going to actually help any group of students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, I'm going to make a motion and then we can move on to the next phase. Thank you. Mike. Mike is the mute police.

[11106-187] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-12-16
PREV> Jason Benware: Excellent.
TEXT> So I'm going to make a motion that we support the administration's proposal to. Specifically, tried to bolster attendance at the elementary level by, finding selective slots for those kids, keeping middle school the same  and going remote for third quarter at the high school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Second that.

[11106-197] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Go ahead. Rebecca.
TEXT> This whole thing has me really torn, because I feel like the high school keeps taking hits and keeps taking hits and keeps taking hits. I mean, there has been so many adjustments for high school students in A and B, you know, the bussing. No more bussing, getting out early, you know, limited time at the end of the day for students to, you know, discuss with teachers. I just feel like the high school keeps getting screwed so many times over, and I don't know what the solution is to that. And I'm really torn because I know how hard it is to teach remote and in person, because that's what I'm doing right now for my own job. So I know how hard that is. But I also don't know if it's the best idea to switch, you know, all of the kids to remote when some kids really need to be in school. You know, this is where I am so torn. I really want to support administration, and I trust what they're saying to me. It's just a challenging decision for me to have to make because I really don't know what the what the right answer is.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Go ahead. Carolyn.

[11106-207] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So so if students have like a science lab or what what would be the plan for being able to teach remotely those types of classes. How how would someone be able to do that with their with their students at home.
TEXT> So in order in order to do labs and things like that. So the it would be synchronous and they, they would be filmed doing the stuff there. Obviously there would not be the hands on inquiry based, you know, kids couldn't do the labs themselves  or the dissections themselves. They have  other types of programs to use and that that would be the case. Again, I mean, it's it's not like being there.  The hope was and I want to stress this enough because it was, trying to get the points from the the high school administration who presented us is that it's the overall equity of the hours for all the learners. They, they  see, a lot of failures happening.  They're very, you know, they're concerned about the impact of what's happening with the C students. And they, they feel that the, the move to this would be more equitable for all students in that the concentration of the teachers to deliver one lesson in a synchronous manner would be tighter. I  have to say, the points that have have been raised by by members are substantial. I  get all of those. I would want those answers as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And not all of them are here, both in the in the you know, in what we know the impact would be it's it's unknown and it's a change from

[11127-34] Jeff Small | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2020-12-10
PREV> Frank Sprague: I might have missed this in the introduction, but Jeff, are you going to go over the budget with us so we know what? Or because there's an increase there in its I'm curious what it is.
TEXT> The first. One says it's. Under account name contracted services, which I'm not a big fan of, but that is how. It. Is in our accounting software.  But it's really all part of training that goes down to the 2500 that you see  for power school certifications. So we usually send 1 or 2 people to power school university to stay on top. That's our student information system.  And that's really the covering cost of that. Not sure if that's going to happen or if it will be virtual this year. But I think those numbers all stayed the same.  As well as staff training split between  myself and Tammy. Who is another? Our PD director,  supplies. We kept the same. That's just for batteries, cables,  miscellaneous small things that come up seem to come up all the time.  One thing that is a little different. The next one is under our software, the education cooperative. That is part of our student data privacy agreement. When I first did this, I had taken it out of the Claremont line last year,  and then we brought unity on board with that as well. What that is, is just, that ensures that's a contract written between us and every company that they do not share or harvest our student information.
NEXT> Jeff Small: So every piece of software we have has to get an agreement, and we use them to write those agreement. It's legal. It's their lawyers. So that that is one

[11127-87] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-10
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yes. Thank you. We are on to superintendents report.
TEXT> Thank you. Chair. I have a few things to report. We had a very. If you look at the the opening slide with some, some some photos from recent events. So you see the  I observed right before Thanksgiving. A great presentation of artwork for the students at unity in the in the top picture.  You can see that. And then today we also had I tried to get that in there as soon as possible. We had a visit from Steve  Chapman. Doctor Chapman is at the from the Chad group at Dartmouth-Hitchcock. He volunteered to reach out and help us, you know, troubleshoot any plans we had for safety in Covid protocols and the like in our in our school district. We took them up on the offer and we had a tour today. That was it was it was great. It really was. He affirmed a lot of the work that were going on. And I say that to it's completely parallel that we had in unity. And I think we could all I don't want to speak for him, but he's offered for whatever we want.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we could have him come up to to unity as well. If he is at the time, I'm sure he would. Just a really incredibly knowledgeable guy, gregarious and

[11127-99] Frank Sprague | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont); Claremont School Board Chair (cluster  | 2020-12-10
PREV> Michael Petrin: no one in the room and I don't see anybody online. All right. So I'm going to close citizens comments and move on to discussion and action items. We'll start with an update from the Claremont School Board. And I'll look to Frank for that.
TEXT> Thanks, Mike. I want to just jump on what Mike had said about our visit with Doctor Chapman today. Again, I want to reiterate the,  the praise he had for the people in our schools and the administrators and the teachers and the kids. We again, with that constant reminder that school really is about the safest place that you can be. And he kept saying that over and over, and, and that's what all the data indicates, that, schools are very, very safe and hoping. And he's by reiterating that hoping to put people's fears at ease because there is fear, there's uneasiness. And, but that's a message, I think, that we need to keep saying that, at least at this point. The data indicates that schools are safe, and a lot of that is due to the hard work that the people in those schools are doing and the cooperation of the kids that are, that are attending. So the next item is we've been  Jason, Mike patron, and I have the meeting with administrators and building level people to work on the budget as well as do and doing our line by line examination of the budget.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And again, it's a learning experience for everybody. The, we're making some progress. We have one more meeting. I think next Wednesday will be meeting with a couple of more

[11175-64] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to, to do this in the short term. Loss of direct time in together is is a pittance at what it could be if it knocks us out for extended time after that, as, as we see. So that's all I have on that I.
TEXT> So my train of thought on this or the pattern that I'm seeing, with increase of cases in the school is whenever there's a prolonged break of time, there's an expectation that students will come in contact with either unprotected community members or members outside of the community, which puts them at higher risk for contracting the virus and bringing it into the school. Before every school break, we have this conversation about how we can prevent, protect the children in the school and keep us from having more cases, potential cases in the school, by prolonging the amount of time that children are out of school. We have yet to have a cluster.
NEXT> Unidentified: Saying, you can't hear you.

[11175-75] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-06
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Thank you. Sorry, guys. So my train of thought in this is, is that before every spring for we break that we've anticipated, the thinking has been that it's in the best interest of the school to prevent increased spread of infection within the school and and diminishing the likelihood that teachers will be infected as well, is that we prolong the time between when children leave school and when they return to school. And what's actually seemed to have happened is that children are getting infected in the community. They're not getting infected in school. We have no had not had any clusters in school. We've not had any, evidence that there has been child to child transmission. Is this true?
NEXT> Unidentified: We have another cluster.

[11175-147] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Talking about two. Students that will cost 500,000 is what we would anticipate to get back from special ed aid from those students. Part of the number that is, have we anticipated getting money back? Because certainly those students would qualify. For special. Ed aid.
TEXT> The money anticipated comes in under the revenue side. So the the catastrophic aid and the amount of I think 600,000. Oh. Right. So when we prepare the budget historically, what we do is we budget for the full tuition of the student, right? Whether it's $300,000 a year or or whatever that may be. And then as far as the sped aids piece of it or the catastrophic aid that comes in under the revenue side, and I think that's around 600,000 is what we've estimated this year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So you're anticipating getting money back on those two students?

[11175-159] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: I just want to make sure that we're we're being, you know, up and up about it anyway.
TEXT> And  so, so, It's both so. What specifically with. With the. This 400 000 allocation. We needed that to start the program. That's, that's going at the upstairs at the, at the tech center, the one that, that we spoke about. We're using a yeah. You're using exactly as we said that we would now we also and this is if we look at this, if you see some of the if you look at, look at the impact in the increase of If we had it, we're going slow and steady and we're targeting the programs where we get the longest,  we call it the run of the students staying in districts so that you year over year, you're not paying out the expense.  So  that's why you always target the lower grades. And if you look at where some of the impact still  is now, and that why we didn't take all of that right now to apply it is we still have concerns about the high school. So and  even though students who stay, some students stay until age 21 past the high school age.  So that will be in our radar for next year. With that, the remaining fund for that if and that's that's a that's an expense that is now graduated up to the high school living in the high school budget where in previous years obviously it was in the middle school budget all the way through as those students going.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, that that's what we have intended even even after this year, so very judicious. We hate to go into that unless we really need to. But we needed to

[11175-195] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. I can hear you, Frank.
TEXT> Okay, great.  Thank you so much. Yeah, I'd be happy to answer any questions or to to weigh in in regards to, you know, what we're seeing at our school and, and obviously just speaking for CMS, in regards to, you know, not only the incident but the incidents that have been happening, I think for us, the the simple thing that I'll say, and I  understand the importance of the safety of our school and right now where schools, seem to be the safest place for students to be. And that is  a no short having to do with the work that's being done right by our teachers and our faculty and staff. And so they should be applauded for that. And our students and families, our students, by with what we need to do. And so that's so much appreciated. And part of what keeps us safe.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: But I think I saw in the comments, something about that, you know, a controlled environment or a semi controlled environment. And we are doing what we can, but it

[11175-196] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: done right by our teachers and our faculty and staff. And so they should be applauded for that. And our students and families, our students, by with what we need to do. And so that's so much appreciated. And part of what keeps us safe.
TEXT> But I think I saw in the comments, something about that, you know, a controlled environment or a semi controlled environment. And we are doing what we can, but it is starting to seep into our schools, and we're starting to see it more and more. If we take a look  at where we were beginning of school. Just before the break, and now just after about the number of students that we're seeing out  on a daily basis,  or how one incident can take its toll today, something like 30 students are close to 30 students, 3 or 4 staff members. If you add that to the couple or 2 or 3 that we have out already, it's putting a strain on it. And I think there's no debating  what type of environment we want to deliver instruction to our students. I don't know a single educator  that, you know, gets a job, goes through to, to get their certification interviews and says, I can't wait to see my classroom so I can go home and teach.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Right? We all want to be there. We all want our students there. That's not the question. I just think the question for us right now is not the can

[11175-197] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: environment we want to deliver instruction to our students. I don't know a single educator that, you know, gets a job, goes through to, to get their certification interviews and says, I can't wait to see my classroom so I can go home and teach.
TEXT> Right? We all want to be there. We all want our students there. That's not the question. I just think the question for us right now is not the can we do it because we can and we are doing it. It's the should we should we be operating in the capacity that we are? Should we be having all of our administrators covering classes and not be out on the floor for discipline, for social emotional support? Should we have our guidance counselors that are covering classes and covering other areas in the building? Should we not be delivering special ed services, the way that we need to be or should be because we're so strained? I'm.  I just think  what Mike was talking about, what we're asking, is an ability to take a step back and see where our community is going to go over this next week. We're starting to see numbers. Sorry. I have three dogs, and they're excited about something. So I just think, oh, the point is just taking a look at it and asking and what my about is, over this next week of the ten days, we're starting to see numbers move into a direction. And yeah,  schools are the safest places. But I wonder over the next ten days or so, at what cost?
NEXT> Frank Romeo: And what are we doing to the overall psyche of our students and our faculty and our staff members? I don't want to have another day like we had today,

[11175-198] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: it and asking and what my about is, over this next week of the ten days, we're starting to see numbers move into a direction. And yeah, schools are the safest places. But I wonder over the next ten days or so, at what cost?
TEXT> And what are we doing to the overall psyche of our students and our faculty and our staff members? I don't want to have another day like we had today, to have to sit back and say to 300 students, you have to go home. That's not good for them. And, and I, to be honest with you, what you know, we're we're getting busses in order and we're trying to find kids rides and, we're making sure that they're going to be safe. But if we continue the way that the trend is going right now, and to have to do that 1 or 2 more times, when we could take a step back and say, hey,  let's give this, ten days or 15 days as, as the quarantine CDC protocol calls for. I think what you'll get out of that is zero opportunity for it to be spread in our school. Clusters will happen. Cases of any faculty staff members that would, contract that if we are working from home for the next ten days. And I think it's just an opportunity to give everybody the the ability to feel safe, and our community to be able to, I think, take a breath, and know that they are going to be safe.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: And I agree with Heather, and I understand when you talk about, other unregulated activities that are happening, communities, they're going to happen either way. We have an opportunity, I

[11175-204] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2021-01-06
PREV> Melissa Lewis: doing. And so I do think that's important for the for the Claremont community to know. The other thing I think, you know, I understand that we haven't had a cluster. I don't I don't disagree with any of those facts that have been shared.
TEXT> Understand completely that schools are safe places and isn't that great? We want schools to  be safe for our children. I think by nature,  as educators, we are proactive people. We're constantly thinking in a proactive manner. And so when Mr. Romeo spoke about, we'll do it, you bet will do it. But should we? That's the proactive nature and us as educators. And so we we want to be proactive because the thought of any of our students suffering in any way causes us to stress. So I think a huge kudos is needed for our staff.  I think there is a high level of anxiety for many. I certainly would never want to speak for all. And, and I think our staff are doing a great job. Is it taking a toll? Yes it is. And I think if we can take a moment and pause and let the dust settle a little bit and  let that period from the Christmas and New Year's holiday settle down a bit and see where our cases lie. I think that would be appreciated and safe for everyone.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you Melissa.

[11175-206] Dale Chenette | Principal, Bluff School (uncertain - identified by elimination: Magoon | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you Melissa.
TEXT> Yes, this is a testament. Say too much more than what Melissa or Frank have already said. But I agree. I mean, I think this is really a question. What can we do? Our teachers are doing it. We've been doing it. It's really a question of should we be doing it? The vaccine is right around the corner. And so to me, it's like an ethical decision. Do you need just the exposed people that don't need to be exposed? There was a there was  a number of of our students collectively, the elementary that were came in direct contact over the break. And I know for me, by the time I got the name of, of the one of my students, they had already been in my building for a day and  in the morning, so, you know, it's creeping in, its creeping in slowly. And so I think we just have to think about that. We want to keep kids safe, but we also we have to think about our teachers and our staff members as well. So that's it. I think it's just that ethical decision of. Should we. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Frank.

[11175-208] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: Frank.
TEXT> This is Alex. I'm a building. More so than a principal. But as the director of the tech center, I just want to concur with my colleagues. This is something we've been talking about as a group together, you know, teaching plumbing or machine tool remotely. That's really hard. So for us to go remote in the tech center, that's a challenge in itself. But we're willing to do it because the safety of our students is the most important. And that's what the tech center teaches the most is safety on the workplace safety and and our shops and labs. And that's what's the most important for us to safety for the student. So I'll just leave it with that. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Jason.

[11175-212] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-06
PREV> Jason Benware: no go. I'd like to know myself. Is there going to be actual live instruction? And if I miss this at the beginning of the the presentation, I apologize. I came in late. So those are my questions and those are my comments and concerns.
TEXT> A couple of things  I believe teachers are on, on the protocol of one vs and that is supposed to start the end of January. And I'm a one b, so I've been paying pretty strict attention to the protocol. The other thing that I'm concerned about is that, the kids have only been back a couple days in school, and each day the numbers have progressed. And Frank made a very good point, which, you know, resonated when he said, you know, sending all 300 kids home today was was hard. I, I, I can't even imagine how hard that was to get them out of school. But if that happens a couple more times, a it's not fair to the kids. And B, the teachers are getting more exposed, is my opinion. And we have not seen the surge from all of Christmas and New Year's. It's coming.  And I believe it's coming fast.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Go ahead. Rebecca.

[11175-217] Unidentified | Unidentified - administrator answering who covers for quarantined teac | 2021-01-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: question is, I think at the beginning of Armenia, I heard that 13 teachers were out. And who is covering for those teachers? And I think that, Mr. Romeo, you touch on a little bit administrators and guidance counselors and such upset the case everywhere.
TEXT> That's who is. Taking the time to go into the classrooms and work with the kids. So we have some parents, we have special ed. We have title one, we have the building principals. They're trying to man them the best they can with whatever they have.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. So that brings me to my comment. Kind of, and it's a little bit of a soapbox for me. And I know people are sick of hearing me say

[11175-221] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Like Mike.
TEXT> So so I also. Thank the educator. Educators and staff for what they're doing in our schools. On the point of vaccine, if we're talking about waiting for a vaccine, which the administration is not, but if we are thinking of vaccine for teachers, for general public, that's I mean, these are teachers, even if they're on the next step, that's that's months. We're not talking weeks. You know, it's it's you get your first shot, then 2 to 3 weeks after you get the second shot and then 2 to 3 weeks after that before you actually show the, the effects of the vaccine. So we're talking several months, at least, before vaccines would be effective for our teachers. And I to me, that's not what we should be planning  on or waiting for. I really see both sides of the argument. I'm struggling with this because, you know, from the standpoint of safety, we want to we talk about wanting the kids to be safe. But, then we talk,  you know, we want kids to stay home and do remote so they'll be safe. But then we also talk about school being the safest place for kids, as far as you know, the lower risk of transmission in the school setting where we have strict protocols that quite honestly, some of the home daycares or even other daycares don't  don't follow.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So, I really struggling because I, I see the rise. I think it jumped up to 75, cases in Claremont today. The number I just saw on line. But we

[11175-222] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: we also talk about school being the safest place for kids, as far as you know, the lower risk of transmission in the school setting where we have strict protocols that quite honestly, some of the home daycares or even other daycares don't don't follow.
TEXT> So, I really struggling because I, I see the rise. I think it jumped up to 75, cases in Claremont today. The number I just saw on line. But we pushed the kids out of school and keep them remote. We know that they're going to be going to these daycares  and crowding into spaces that aren't as proactive and secure as the school system is. So, I'm trying to I'm going back and forth here, but thanks.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I just.

[11175-226] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: team. We're all covering. And I go back to again what I had said and Melissa had commented on, it's not the can, we can do it. And we have done it. And I love working at CMS because of that reason. It's the should.
TEXT> And right now where what we're being asked to do of everybody and for kids and and Caroline, you said this about sending them home. It was heart wrenching. Given what I even seeing in the news today, to not be able to sit with our, our kids to explain and walk through what's happening in the news and what's happening around this country, and to explain to them what's happening now is heart wrenching. I got into education to be that voice. I got into education to be a part of what's happening. I don't want to have to send kids home again and then look at my faculty, the same thing. So to me, that's my perspective of what I'm looking at and why I would be a supporter of, you know, the the night to the 19th or whatever day makes the most sense if you look out to it. So that's what it is. But I agree, both of you, it's a very good point. There's no vaccine that's going to save what we're looking for right now. I think we're just looking for a little bit of time. So thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Frank, I've, I've I've heard a lot of things myself here that I, that I agree with. I agree that schools. Are a safe place for kids to

[11175-227] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: to it. So that's what it is. But I agree, both of you, it's a very good point. There's no vaccine that's going to save what we're looking for right now. I think we're just looking for a little bit of time. So thank you.
TEXT> Thank you. Frank, I've, I've I've heard a lot of things myself here that I, that I agree with. I agree that schools. Are a safe place for kids to be. I've heard other people say that it's, too soon from the holiday break, that we really haven't seen the results of that manifest itself yet. I think that what I think Carolyn had talked about, the, community spread that we're starting to see here, and I know some of it is in, where where people are congregated. But as as Frank Romeo said, it's starting to seep into the schools. And then when Rebecca spoke about Lebanon, I was thinking about what that superintendent had said about, appropriate education. And when I hear that there are,  20 teachers out, in one school and five teachers out in other school and  30 kids out. It brings up that essential question when we're putting kids back and saying they need to be in school, are we education or are we daycare? And, so those are the things that I'm struggling with. I may sound a little bit like a waffle here, but I think it's I think someone who admits that the more that they learn, and has the courage to sort of reevaluate their current positions on things. And I've been, a believer that kids need to be in school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: However, I do see some wisdom in this one week, this ten day break. I see wisdom there. I do think that it's going to give a chance for things

[11175-229] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: this recommendation. And, and I think that it's as far as the, pivoting to remote, the other, where we talk about having kids come in, Will, that'll be a separate discussion. But at this point in time, I'm supporting the administration. Richard outlet. Go ahead.
TEXT> Thank you. I mean, my my my position. I've stated it before, but what I'd like to share is what I've seen  this week,  sitting in the meetings, a couple of things. We have some of the toughest people running our buildings. They they take a lot of stuff every day. There's no question of their commitment to the students, to education, to the kids, to the families all the way down through, their fortitude is unquestionable. And what I saw in a meeting we had yesterday amongst our building leaders and what they were presenting, and also the impact it had on them, was significantly different than what I've seen in the meetings. We've had two, sometimes one time time, two, sometimes three times a week. They're really now having to draw a question of can I do what I want to do because of the absences and what has gone on? Number one. Number two,  we're seeing people who have said, I'll put my family on one side and I'll do my job with kids on the other. And there's never been a question that. But the balance is now starting to change a little bit. We're seeing not necessarily a fear, but it's bordering between concern and fear. And part of giving people time off is just letting the pressure off for a little bit.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We see the trend in what's going on here with the 60. If it goes back down to 20, you're going to see these same people who are concerned on

[11175-230] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Richard Seaman: been a question that. But the balance is now starting to change a little bit. We're seeing not necessarily a fear, but it's bordering between concern and fear. And part of giving people time off is just letting the pressure off for a little bit.
TEXT> We see the trend in what's going on here with the 60. If it goes back down to 20, you're going to see these same people who are concerned on the trend go, I'm back in a good place. I'm ready to go. If you see the 60, go to 90 or stay at 60 or start to hit closer to home, then you're going to see that fear. You're going to see that concern increase. What I can tell you from a medical point of view, from an HR point of view, what we're seeing is we have had more requests for our employee assistance program, something that is provided through our insurance. As far as what can I do to handle what's going on, what it's doing to me, what it's doing to my family, what it's doing to my parents. ET cetera.  The story here is not just about the kids. The kids are important part of it. And teachers bought in to do this job. It's that you're absolutely right. But they're telling stories of kids who are coming in and saying, yeah, I travel during vacation, but the parents are saying, no, we didn't travel during vacation, and they're having to balance this information that's going on.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: And all they're asking us on this time along is take the pressure off for a few days. We want to be back with our kids. We want to be

[11175-231] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Richard Seaman: this job. It's that you're absolutely right. But they're telling stories of kids who are coming in and saying, yeah, I travel during vacation, but the parents are saying, no, we didn't travel during vacation, and they're having to balance this information that's going on.
TEXT> And all they're asking us on this time along is take the pressure off for a few days. We want to be back with our kids. We want to be talking civics. We want to be talking what's going on. But if you sat in these meetings, you would see a material change in the discussion, in the facial expressions, in the stories and what we're hearing this week with what went on from what we had last week. And I'm not a softy on this one, folks. I'm really not. I'm just telling you what I'm seeing and what we'd ultimately like. We're not waiting for. They're not saying wait for a vaccine. They're saying we don't like where it is now. It's not working as well. We're concerned. Let us have this for a period of time. Open up the pressure valve for a little bit, tighten it back down in the future and we're ready to get back to work if everything goes as we hope it will go. So I just wanted to share that side of what you you won't see it. We're seeing it in the meetings. You won't see it because you're not sitting in the meetings. Thank you Frank.
NEXT> Unidentified: We have.

[11175-236] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you.
TEXT> Just I'm looking for some answers, I guess. So, one of my concerns with this is that. Shutting this going remote, in. Particular for the elementary school, is not like going remote. When we were in a statewide lockdown, when parents were home, when almost everybody but essential workers were home, we're now going to be putting families in a situation where people aren't going to be able to stay home for two weeks. Everybody is now considered an essential worker, unless they are privileged enough to be able to do their work from home, which is very few people. So who's going to facilitate this learning for the children at home? I mean, that's that's a real that's a real concern. We're telling folks that right now you're two weeks. You got to figure out who's going to teach you, who is going to facilitate remote education for children at home. Secondly, if we find out which I suspect is that community spread will continue, I don't I would be surprised if it actually came down until we  we get a little bit more, vaccinations out in the community on routine basis, which I don't think that's going to happen.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think the ball is rolling now in, Claremont, unfortunately. So if our cases do not fall in two weeks, what's our plan? If we have community spread at the

[11175-245] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-06
PREV> Unidentified: We don't.
TEXT> There is a there's a huge strain in a lot of industries right now from, from this. Well  and the question is is can you manage it and are we managing it. It looks like we're managing it. And it does look like the transmission that happened to the students that brought it to school happened outside of school. I mean, the transmission is not occurring in school. The more time we keep kids in school, the less transmission is going to happen to kids. The to children. I mean, it's just  it just is.  It's not a it's not a hypothetical. It's an is.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Understand that because I sent home. 26 kids today that could potentially have Covid. So it's not. It's not they were exposed. They weren't potentially exposed. They were exposed. Unmasked

[11175-276] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: I mean, that's what.
TEXT> We are saying. It's unsafe to go to. School  or the. And the impact is too high that the children aren't being educated in school, that Covid is coming into school, and it's an unsafe environment. Right? Right now, teachers are unable to teach because it's unsafe, because people are leaving, because they can't stay in school, because they're quarantining. We don't have the teachers to teach. This is this is I'm kind of trying to build the case for, you know, if anything.
NEXT> Unidentified: I agree with you.

[11175-285] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: if it really keeps spiking, I think we won't wait until the eve of type of thing. We're going to we're going to look at it and we'll make a decision. If we wanted to extend it. We don't want to extend it. Absolutely not.
TEXT> It would be helpful if  if we. Have an idea of what, what the threshold is going to be from the administrative point of view,  as far as community spread, I don't think we should debate whether or not we're going to come back in two weeks. We should know right now whether we're going to come back in two weeks, depending on X, like there's not much to know. I mean, once we send the kids home. Yeah. If we're saying we're sending them home, when will we bring them back? Or under what circumstances will we bring them back and under what circumstances won't we?
NEXT> Unidentified: I.

[11175-297] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Jason or Rebecca or Carolyn. Go ahead. Jason.
TEXT> I'm not going to  beat this horse much longer. But I heard from the elementary principals about doing essentially live education for the kids. I didn't hear anything from the middle school. So is there going to be live instruction at the middle school as well? That's all I wanted to ask.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: There. Come on.

[11175-302] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Carolyn. Rebecca. Okay. You're on mute. Carolyn.
TEXT> Hi there. I think Rebecca and I are on the same wavelength, on what I'm going to say, but the matrix, I wish we could have a matrix, and we should, but because this whole thing has been a moving target, everybody has had to be flexible. And it is a moving target. We did super well during the spring, this summer and most of the fall, but then we started climbing and we're going to continue to climb. And I understand the stress level from the teachers level. Every, every one of us is worried about this whole thing. And until we get some reactions with vaccines really going full speed ahead, I think that stress level is going to be there, especially for the kids. They hear it from their parents and then they get taken out of school, 300 kids, they have to shut school down. And God, the emotional level has got to be extremely high. And, I would have a very deep concern that our numbers are going to severely go up in the next week, week and a half. And, my opinion is that my vote would be to shut down.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Rebecca.

[11175-304] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Rebecca.
TEXT> I just wanted to respond to Heather really quickly and say that, Heather kept using the term managing. The schools are still managing, but I just I really think that the term managing is subjective. So, your definition of managing a mind might be a little bit different. And the other thing is, I think it's important to remember. And someone just reminded me that when kids aren't in school, we also have social workers and people who are constantly reaching out to meet the needs of the students who are having challenges from not being in school.  And I think that our social workers do a great job of that.  I'm also in regard to what's the plan? I  again, Heather, this is this is a comment back to you. But, and I love you and I think you're so smart and all of that, but I just think that this is a scenario where you want specifics because you're very black and white. And this whole pandemic has not been black and white for me. I feel like it's a constant reevaluation of what's going on. It's a constant conversation of what we need to be doing moving forward.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And I like your question about what's going to happen in two weeks, but nobody knows what would happen in two weeks. I think we're just talking about the here

[11175-305] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: you want specifics because you're very black and white. And this whole pandemic has not been black and white for me. I feel like it's a constant reevaluation of what's going on. It's a constant conversation of what we need to be doing moving forward.
TEXT> And I like your question about what's going to happen in two weeks, but nobody knows what would happen in two weeks. I think we're just talking about the here and now. And the last thing I wanted to say was everybody keeps talking about the stress to teachers in the emotional hardships for teachers. And in all honesty, I really don't think that too many people actually care about that. You know, I think they say they care. But the common theme is everybody stressed and everybody's feeling, you know, everything so hard because we all are. But the difference is, you're not taking care of my kids in school like the teachers are. So, I'm with Carolyn. I I've not changed my opinion. I'm all for having, you know, kids not be in school for a week. And then I think that they should go back to school. And if we have, you know, a day or two days in a row where kids are getting called out of the middle school and high school because there has been a case of Covid and they need to do contact tracing, then I think we should come back to the drawing board and and figure out what our plan would be after that.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Why doesn't somebody who supports this make a motion, please?

[11175-327] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah.
TEXT> So I was under the impression that the cohort C kids weren't going back until February 2nd. I mean, February. And that's when it would be reevaluated for  all of the kids to be rejoining the school. So are you saying it was January?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Or was it always February 2nd? Okay, so that that's just a typo.

[11175-381] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes. That's what I was going to ask.
TEXT> So the middle and the high school teacher that now that they're going to be teaching live, the kids can stream into those.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And they'll be on the same, same page. Yeah. I just have one more thing, because I've been getting a lot of community communication about concerns about cohort C, and

[11175-395] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: see all along and shouldn't be missing out on the synchronous learning once we get there. My other question was, what do you think the timeline is for the synchronous and elementary? I know we talked about it a little bit, but what's the goal?
TEXT> Well, right. Right now. They the elementary have their own teachers that do remote. Right. So they would not be going into the, the kids that are  for the next two weeks into those classrooms of the other other kids. But I do know that the building principals have been working with the staff that are remote, you know, looking at their schedule and talking to them about making them, you know, looking at their schedules to see when are you going? When are you meeting with kids and how are your meeting with kids? I do know that a lot of times what ends up happening is they set up spots for for kids at certain times during the day,  and parents just don't have the kids go on sometimes, you know? And so, of course the teacher feels a loss for that because then they know that that child is falling behind. So I do know that the remote teachers are working very hard to try to get  a lot of kids on, but a lot of kids are not coming on. And so they are they're doing the best that they can. Like everybody is right in with Covid.  But I do know that they're working the building principles are working very closely with their teachers, their remote teachers, and looking at their schedules and seeing how they can assist them in any way.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And it's even more so because a lot of now, a lot of our building principals really have a hands on because they've had to teach a lot of these

[11175-398] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. CM's athletic policy. So.
TEXT> So this this came about, this discussion came about and I don't I just wanted to bring it to the boys attention. So there there  are some recent cases came to our attention where students from  other towns may be participating in our athletic or athletic programs at the middle school  and what we spoke about. And then when we we and that's that's how it got on our radar. And  as I understand it, this has been going on. It's something that has gone on in this town and in other towns,  sometimes regularly. What we did find out is that there there has been a  recent history of it and sending school, you know, where we in and what we did was we we put a stop to it. There were there were two cases right away, different different  students  where we said, we want to hold on this. We need to find out more about it. They aren't allowed to continue. And then obviously there's the argument that that's an amenity for the taxpayer of Claremont. And, and  and it should be reserved for the students of Claremont. When we went a little deeper, we we heard that that over the years, if there wasn't a program in the youth League for those students at these other area towns, they were allowed to go in the Claremont program.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And, and it came to our attention. They weren't conflicts. Well, to a degree there, the the issues at hand are if a student from another town displaces a Claremont

[11175-401] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: spelled out clearly if we, if we want this in or we want it out. So that's why I bring it to the board to get perspective on it and, and to be pretty transparent with it because it just, just came on our radar.
TEXT> So my understanding was, that this was these two, I guess, two students for this,  current sports program. We're currently not allowed to play entirely. I, I have concerns about how,  I guess quickly that came about,  with my understanding that these, you know, students had already tried out in, participated in the tryouts and made the teams I would. Myself, I would suggest kind of role it  or my opinion would be to roll that back, allow participation for those students who, were allowed to take part in tryouts. And initially I think some practices maybe, I know it's not just the concern of students being out of town. There's part of the concern being actually another state. And so, you know, with Covid and Covid restrictions, we have to look at that as well. But,  I think if these students were initially allowed to start  at least a tryouts, we need to really look at, allowing that for this, current sports season and maybe look at for the spring some sort of policy. I agree with the pay to play. If you're out of town, then you you you know your our tax dollars pay  for this. So the kids that are out of town should chip in somehow. I also wonder, the question that came to mind now too, is that with going full remote, does that change anything with sports? So.
NEXT> Unidentified: Our our.

[11175-417] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-01-06
PREV> Unidentified: Know if we need to. Make.
TEXT> A motion on athletic participation policy or not, but I think that I think it would be wise to have the policy committee, meet with the athletic director, with him being involved, and come up with something that could come back to the board. And I agree with Mike 100% that if, if kids can play, if they're willing to pay and,  just it's,  up on my soapbox again. One of the things about middle school athletics is what is the purpose of those, is it to, to win or is it to have kids get exposure to an activity that maybe they have never tried before? And so if we're going to bring in highly talented kids from out of town that are going to be displacing local kids who maybe just want to learn the sport just for the sake of winning, that's problematic to me at the middle school. So  I don't know. I think that may be part of it.  I hate to see kids that really want to learn something be displaced for the sake of we want to have a competitive winning team. So but that's something for the policy committee to think about. Okay.
NEXT> Unidentified: So is there a.

[11175-419] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-06
PREV> Unidentified: So is there a.
TEXT> I just think people are going to want an answer at some point. Maybe that. Doesn't have to be here, but people are. Going to want to answer for those kids that are. Out of town that have been told they can't participate at this point, we need to and I guess Mike can get that out, but we need a response.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So I'll definitely I'll definitely get that out. I'd rather, you know, talk to those families directly. But in terms of the other, the out of state travel and the

[11216-28] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-02-03
PREV> Michael Petrin: Frank, I just Mary, Logging in. Yep.
TEXT> Okay. Well, I can email her. Her,  what I've done so far. So we had no minutes the previous meeting.  Citizens comments. So I received a, a fairly lengthy email from, from the nurses in the district, which  is a couple of pages. So I'll read that while Mary's getting organized. So the saw six nursing staff have many have had many meetings over the past two weeks, often daily. We continue to have concerns related to the reopening of the schools here in Claremont. We are all in constant  contact with the D, A, D, S and New Hampshire School Nurse Association and many medical professionals, including nurses from other districts. We are all aware that the governor, the CDC and Doctor Chan have spoken on the importance of schools reopening, but only in a safe manner. Many places in the state have been doing much better than we were. Many places were closed when we were open. We all feel it needs to be looked at as what is best for Claremont. Now we live in this community. We know the student population. We know the parents, we know the staff, and we know Claremont. Claremont can be a very strong place, but we all must work together and get this virus under control.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We need to make sure everyone is doing their part to contain this and get things back to normal. Sullivan County right now is considered extremely high risk, with an

[11216-30] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-02-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: family members living in the same household, which we know to be true over and over. We know of many people who are going on February vacation and not canceling staff and community members alike, and not just telling one anyone and not being forthright.
TEXT> There are staff members who cannot even go to a close family funeral because of it, outside the approved list of safe travel states and would have to quarantine. But you have people going on vacation. Now, we had known. Now had we known we could be out longer than two, 121, maybe they could have attended. Unfortunate. We have learned in the last couple of days of many families that have been positive and never notified the schools over break and the remote period, and some that we just found out by accident. Others we know of and cannot get Ahold of them to see how they are and if they are following guidelines, the children of these cases will be coming back into our schools, potentially affecting more people because guidelines may have not been followed. We have seen close twice. We have seen Cumberland Farms, the Elks, the Legion, the VFW, the pleasant restaurant, and now the new taco takeout. All have been shut down recently for a period of related to a period of positive cases. There have been 97 cases at Sullivan County Nursing Home and Correctional Facility. Many of our students and their parents work there. There has been an outbreak at Cedar Hill Nursing Home in Windsor. We have students from the high school as well as parents working there.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We have a very large number of high school students that work at Market Basket, Hannaford, McDonald's as well as Walmart. Safest decision would be to stay out until after

[11216-33] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-02-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: staff are an older population and they are scared to death. Take them out and what will be left? Another school shutdown. This too shall pass. And we just have to do what we need to to make it through the best we can, unscathed.
TEXT> If that means being remote for a bit longer, then so be it. So that's from the, from Miss Seven.  On behalf of the nurses. Other citizens comments.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I have a question.

[11216-46] Rick Deschenes | Public commenter, spring track and fall coach at Stevens HS (ASR 'Mr.  | 2021-02-03
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Frank.
TEXT> Can you hear me? Perfectly. Okay, great. Got the same background I do. Yeah, I, I  copied you. Actually. I saw the same three choices, maybe that you saw. And I went with the, you know, the the Stargazer thing. Yeah.  So I had sent,  And I know you all folks are busy, and, so I don't know that you were able had an opportunity to read the last couple of emails that I had,  sent to you all. But it was with regard to, the participation in sports.  Particularly with the high school sports and speaking,  as somebody that,  has had, you know, opportunities to coach, lucky with, with Patti, my wife and in the fall and then,  track and field in the spring. You know, if I've come to really,  see the benefits of sports to, to the student athletes,  those that participate, and particularly this fall. You know, my comment on, on  our, our season, which was, you know, it was different.  Obviously because of the circumstances and,  but what what we saw,  despite the fact that, you know, there were changes, there was an abbreviated season, there were, you know, a certain protocol, which we were we were happy to, to follow if it meant that we could still play.
NEXT> Rick Deschenes: What I saw, though was, the full positive effect this fall had on, on our student athletes. And in the face of all the, you know, the Covid environment. So,

[11216-47] Rick Deschenes | Public commenter, spring track and fall coach at Stevens HS (ASR 'Mr.  | 2021-02-03
PREV> Rick Deschenes: circumstances and, but what what we saw, despite the fact that, you know, there were changes, there was an abbreviated season, there were, you know, a certain protocol, which we were we were happy to, to follow if it meant that we could still play.
TEXT> What I saw, though was,  the full positive effect this fall  had on, on our student athletes. And in the face of all the, you know, the Covid environment.  So, you know, my first email was just a comment on that.  And, and to kind of reinforce the fact that,  it really was somewhat of a return to normalcy and a getaway for these, for these kids. I mean, if you could, you would have been there for the first practice. Practice?  Sorry.
NEXT> Jeff Small: Right. No.

[11216-49] Rick Deschenes | Public commenter, spring track and fall coach at Stevens HS (ASR 'Mr.  | 2021-02-03
PREV> Jeff Small: Right. No.
TEXT> Keep going. Okay. I'm sorry.  If you could have been there for the first practice and just to see how what the excitement was and the buzz between all the all the kids. All the girls.  It was it was something to see. And it it was touching.  And I know that. And, you know, the the code environment has changed since the fall. And by the way, we were able to  all all the programs,  this past fall were able to participate.  Not only our programs, but programs across the state. And it was done safely. Now, you know, fast forward to to where we at now. And  obviously, everybody knows that the case is,  have gone up since the fall and, and,  and the board and the administration  has, has tried to react accordingly and in a safe way. And I can I can understand the,  the feeling that, shutting down or going remote and actually, terminating or or curtailing, not terminating, but curtailing the the sports season seem like the right thing to do.  But in my heart, I didn't feel like it was. And but that doesn't mean anything. My feeling doesn't mean anything.
NEXT> Rick Deschenes: I tried to seek out some numbers to to see if I was. I was correct. And, you know, what I sent along to, was a chart based on my

[11216-51] Rick Deschenes | Public commenter, spring track and fall coach at Stevens HS (ASR 'Mr.  | 2021-02-03
PREV> Rick Deschenes: was as of the 2020 fifth, there was one case active within the school system that that the the website defined a case within the system as either staff member or a student. It also gave the total number of recovered cases within each system.
TEXT> So we had two recovered cases in one active case going down through. And I don't I'd have to do this from memory, which I can't, can't do at this point. But,  we had,  I believe three other schools  it could have been Lebanon, Hanover and Centipede all on our schedule with zero active cases.  Newport, I think. Which which Newport actually isn't participating like us right now in sports. I think they had either 2 or 3 active cases, as did mask. Maybe. Maybe Newport did two. Coma had three. So,  and you know, Doug Beaupre I'm sure could speak to the actual numbers of participants. Participants, in the winter sports programs, I would estimate maybe around 50 kids is what we're talking about. If we think about boys and girls basketball and the cheering squad. So to me,  if you look at the schedule, who would be playing the exposure and also the protocol that is is in place  for winter sports.  Many, many  of the districts are doing no fans. Of course they're doing masks.  It just seemed to me like the the risk was minute.  And and really something that if you compared the risk with the benefits that these kids get by participation in some return to normalcy  and exercise. I really thought that, it was it was worth the board to consider to reinstate. Reinstate  at least the sports piece.  Immediately. So that's my opinion. Thank you.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Thank you. Rick.

[11216-60] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board (only 'Prescott' said on this reco | 2021-02-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Let's transition. Let's have, Prescott to his do his presentation at this time.
TEXT> All right. Thank you. So  first, the students and faculty at sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center, Bluff and Maple Avenue are working hard to continue classes or finishing up classes in a remote setting at Stevenson High School. Multiple clubs, from youth and government  to senior class officers, have transition to working on projects in an entirely remote setting, and more specifically, youth and government is preparing for bills in preparation for the remote mock legislature in April. Student seniors are reminded to keep looking at the scholarship. Google classroom with multiple deadlines nearing, including the Family Foundation scholarship, and students will be able to drop off books and materials from Sister One on Friday from 7 to 9 in the morning, or 2 to 7 in the evening. And on February 8th, the school counseling department will be hosting a New Hampshire Higher Education Assistance Foundation, applying to college one on one night. And this event will be happening remotely through Google Meet. And there is a a link on Stevens High School's website in order to to access it at CMS. The yearbooks are now on sale. You can order one at Justin's dot com, and order forms are also available in the CMS office. Whenever we're able to return back to the school.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: And then at Disney, they have been 100% remote with everybody else and have been very happy with the attendance and participation they've been seeing from students. And the teachers

[11216-65] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: by the time we went to present that night, I think that was from the morning. And then we had 27 active cases in quarantine, really handcuffing us across several buildings. And that's when we made the decision to pivot to remote. Next slide please.
TEXT> Again, this is this is the dip on the 19th. We went down to 79 cases.  And then you can see that that we're still close to the 58, which is a rise in New Hampshire in 57. Next slide.  Sorry, the next one. This is this. This slide was what I sent to the board. We have approximately, as we're looking at, at the,  the decline in the infections in the area, in the Sullivan County.  And we're also trying to balance. And I don't have to inform most of the people who are tuned in tonight. Our goal is to have as many of our kids in person, kind of old school  in class, particularly in the early grades, in our principles at every level. Have been working hard to do that from the recent survey information. This is a slide that shows the elementary teachers how they have made arrangements for 65 students to come back on on Monday. There's about 15 to 20 in the middle school as well, and 15 to 20 in the high school. I say those numbers because they have fluctuated much more consistently at the middle and high school. In terms of some people still opting out not to come back,  but they haven't in the elementary. They're still holding the 65 students across the three schools who are ready to come back on Monday. Next slide please.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's our how we have caucused as a as a district in superintendents round tables, as well as all the other administrative team meetings. We meet proximately every other day,

[11216-71] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we'll talk about that after. And this was a great question. Should we, mirror what colleges are doing? My daughter is a freshman, you know, as well as some other board members and other people in the in the, in the community and at colleges.
TEXT> They're doing a lot of  daily or 2 or 3 time weekly testing. With staff and things like that. And we did look into that along with a lot of other districts. And that's it's even if we could get all of the materials to do that, it's really prohibitive. And it would mean our staff to be able to do it. You have to do it consistently with with the students and with the staff, and it's very prohibitive to do at our scale. So I we can still look into that. But it was, it was, somewhere about 20, $30,000. And when we looked at it a couple of months ago, and I really wouldn't recommend it. Next next question. What percentage of our students are performing at grade level? I had the principals pulled their information together, and we can see that over the next few slides. How well they're doing with the remote switch. We can go forward, Mr. Small. All right. So we we, labeled the elementary schools so you would know which which was which A, B, and C just to kind of on.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And so that we're not pointing fingers at things or, or being causing any type of outrage. But you can see the kindergarten, first grade, numbers are pretty compelling here

[11216-73] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: compared to the others. And you're going to see a little of that continued. If we go to the next slide in the middle school numbers. Okay. 63% and 63. Dead. Dead, even in the sixth grade, 73. And then 58 and 71 and 66.
TEXT> And you can see the attendance rate. All this entire presentation will be on the website to that you can look at at your leisure. After this we will post it next. Next slide. At Stevens 82. Freshman 82 and 86%. That's that's an inverse, which is interesting where cohort C has has risen and we have heard this. And if you look at it, cohort C has exceeded or met is even at every single grade in Stevens. And you've heard that referred to  we had a a remote teacher praise it in today. Sent an email right before. Again we we we get emails often to technology teacher but who you know said she might be a little biased, but she has never seen more participation in rigor with the kids, so it was great to see. Next  slide please. And again mitigation efforts and protocols. And we have our we're we're still cleaning and sanitizing the same way that we have. And we're doing a, you know, everything that we can to release the burden on on staff. Next slide please. This is and I really urge folks  at home and I sent this to the board, and I got to give props to my wife about the New York Times article because she on on Fear of retribution. She wanted credit for that. Even though the whole the whole country is talking about that article and in its relation to the Jama article as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Where they talk about several of the things that some of our board members have been saying about the safest place being in schools, which we've heard and heard. But

[11216-76] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that it's from yesterday's and we we are in the moderate range. We have teetered from substantial and come back down either way. The three options are hard. The same with the asterisk on the hybrid, if you're in substantial really is as a recommendation.
TEXT> And for folks at home who who may not know, I think  everyone who probably is tuned in is pretty current with this. But we started out with a hybrid model, and then because of the impacts of transportation and and decision to have more people in face to face, I have been asked that question, why would why would we not go to hybrid first? And from the perspective of our teachers and from our our counselors and our administrators, and for us. Particularly in, in K-5, we would much rather have there's just so much more benefit, so much more bang for the buck when the kids are in there. All the, the studies and of those many that will be posted on there to look over, there is very little documented transmission of student, a student or student to adult being carriers and things like that. And that that factors heavily in our recommendation. Next slide please. Okay. Back a slide. That's that's for for later in the meeting. But our recommendation based on on all of these things is to continue and have have the students come back in person  on, on Monday. Now, we don't make this decision lightly. We definitely hear the perspective of others in the community, including the nurses and including nurses.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I was on a call today as, with folks in other and other school district as well, and some other doctors in the system, and Superintendent Magoon is on at

[11216-77] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: based on on all of these things is to continue and have have the students come back in person on, on Monday. Now, we don't make this decision lightly. We definitely hear the perspective of others in the community, including the nurses and including nurses.
TEXT> I was on a call today as, with folks in other and other school district as well, and some other doctors in the system, and Superintendent Magoon is on at least 2 or 3 times a week with doctors and Doctor Chan directly, and looking at the latest guidance and all the factors in our community and the impacts to our community and having our kids back. So we have eyes on our kids and we have safety nets around them. We understand that, you know, there's risks in everything, but we would definitely think the right decision is to have folks back knowing as well that we're only three weeks away from from a vacation. So, and in all the evidence is there that with the downward trends that we're, we're hoping that the downward trend continues, and I think it will. I think as the vaccinations increase, as everything else is back and as we are solid and I can't stress this enough, the hard work that goes on every day with every single staff member, with our protocols, with our masking, with now a lot of folks are double masking and they're they're exceeding it in our barriers and in the schedules and the all the time and planning it obviously it has worked.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Our the spike that we saw recently came after an extended break. And we're hoping that we, that we fare well with when the students come back and we're very,

[11216-79] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: an extended break. And we're hoping that we, that we fare well with when the students come back and we're very, very positive. That having students back is the way to go beginning on Monday. So that's that's our recommendation. And if I can just.
TEXT> If I can just add on to that, one of the things that we are asking, you know, as we do bring our students back. We do know that we are safe spot. We do know that that we have the things in place to keep our students safe. One of the things we are asking is for support from the community to make sure that they're doing their part as well. You know, we're doing our part to to keep our kids safe while they're inside the building. So we're just asking that, you know, they do their part to keep our keep everybody safe while they're outside of the building. Because what happens is when kids are coming in. They, you know, have been exposed to someone that has it, you know, or they may get it themselves. That's where the the exposure is coming from. So it's coming from outside of the community into our schools. So we're just asking if, you know, people can just, you know, be a little bit more due diligence with making sure that wearing masks and make sure they're not doing large gatherings and, and things such as that. So that way we can continue to keep our kids in school because that's what they need to be. And so we just all really need to work together to to make this a successful transition and keep our kids in school for the rest of the school year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And see. Carolyn has a question, so I will we're at this point in time, we're. Not. Deliberating this question because we're not into our discussion action items yet. This

[11216-127] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. I mean it was it's not called warp speed for nothing. I think that it's it's been it's been done very quickly. Okay. So let's move on to, board approval of retirements.
TEXT> So we we have a  list  of,  of, of folks and we that you that you have in front of you. Seven. There's no impact for  the, the the bargaining unit. Sometimes there can be there can be a discussion about those if you have more than ten or it's impactful to the budget.  It's positively impactful for the budget. In a tough budget year, we really we have some we have so many wonderful teachers. And even though, we wish them the best, we were going to incredibly missed the the amount that they give to the students each and every day. But but, I would ask that we would grant these we we never identify the teachers. They still have the right to rescind these. And for sometimes it's a tough decision and they do. So we would just ask to the board to accept those, please.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Looking for a motion.

[11262-11] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Richard Seaman: So maybe you can just assist me here. I'm just speaking through, What these are. Yeah.
TEXT> You left off, I think, with the brave program at bluff, which is a regular education program tailored to meet students needs that have behavioral challenges but are not special education students. And then the other, other program that I believe accounts for the increase at bluff is the,  elementary level autism program.  We, this past year, we partnered with New England Center for children as the international leader in autism programing. Our intention is to end our contract with them  at the end of this year and continue to operate that program in-house,  at a reduced rate. So we want to keep the program going, but we want to do it at a reduced rate by any of our contract with with NEC.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Thank you. The Maple Avenue slight reduction, there is actually a movement of some of the teachers out of regular ed and into the special ed program. So you're seeing

[11262-106] Matt Upton | District attorney, Drummond Woodsum | 2021-01-13
PREV> Matt Upton: used under 1129. Board would also introduce all the Warren articles and would make a presentation similar to what Richard did today, talking about what the Warren articles say and what they're why they're necessary, and then would actually close the informational session that night.
TEXT> After the informational session. We would make  several modes of communication available to the public for the public to send, concerns, requested amendments, comments.  And they should really be both for and against what's on the warrant that way. The purpose of this period of communication is for the board to get a handle on public sentiment, because we're going to have a second virtual meeting, they call it, which has to be held within seven days of the first informational session, where the board members actually act on behalf of the voters in amending the budget, amending the Warren articles, taking action based on the input they've received in that period of time, from the closing of the informational session  and the virtual meeting.  Most districts that are adopting the informational session on February 1st are scheduling the virtual meeting either February 4th or February 5th. At the virtual meeting, what happens is all the comments that the boards received,  after the informational session, are read into the record so that the public is, understands that we've gotten all your comments, we've listened to you.
NEXT> Matt Upton: Here's what the comments say. That's why it's really important. People who who are for the articles on the Warren and people who are against them should both provide input.

[11262-115] Matt Upton | District attorney, Drummond Woodsum | 2021-01-13
PREV> Tracy Pope: school board's decision on how to act on all of the comments that they get from the public. The pros and the cons and amendments. And then they can, taking all of those into consideration, decide if they're going to change the budget at all.
TEXT> That's exactly correct. And in essence, what the school board is doing is acting as agents for the voters and, and, and taking and doing the amendment process on behalf of the voters.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Okay, then I had another question. When it comes to the actual, I'm going to say drive through voting. And I'm just going to put it out there that I'm

[11262-219] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Donna Magoon: calls that are coming in. So it kind of made me smile a little bit, but, you know, that that was a joke that he made to me. But so as from Wednesday to today, I have put out on quarantine or isolation, 80 people.
TEXT> It's eight zero. We're talking 27 staff members in that and that 80 people. So I've put out a total of 80. And as I said before, this does not take into consideration the kids that were quarantined from from Nema, the kids that, you know, that parents are quarantining themselves because the parent may have it and they're keeping their kids home because their kids are, around somebody that's been exposed to it. This is actually people in our school that have either had have Covid or have been around someone in our school building that has Covid,  so it's in our own walls. I think Heather has a question. Frank. You're muted.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I know. There we go. Go ahead Heather.

[11262-235] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-13
PREV> Donna Magoon: You're unmuted. Yep.
TEXT> So I just have I just have a and this is a very real concern. Is you know I'm I'm conflicted whether or not we are actually contributing having our kids within the community is contributing to an increase of community spread. That sounds crazy,  but they're  they are offering remote learning camps in town. I mean, the community spread is controlled when we're in lockdown. This is tough for me because, you know, we're not in lockdown. And if we're trying to or are we trying to reduce the numbers in the community? I mean, I'm I'm not sure what we're trying to achieve here. It's very frustrating to me.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Well, Heather, I think I think what I look at is that's a parent's choice, right? So if the parent decides that they want to send their child to a

[11262-237] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-13
PREV> Donna Magoon: to send their child to a camp and be exposed to Covid, that's their choice. Parents are not choosing to send their kids to school. They're sending their kids to school because, you know, that we that that we're doing that, right. We're keeping those.
TEXT> No. And I'm not that. It's parents twice. What I'm saying is, if the goal is to get kids back to school and we're struggling to justify them coming back to school because of our community spread numbers, and we're actually potentially contributing to community spread because we're not in lockdown. And how are we ever going to determine, you know, at this point in time, now that the kids are out of school, how are we ever going to determine, other than community spread numbers when the right time to come back is using that metric? And, you know, I can't in good faith, you know, vote cart block on a on a February 1st hold date because who knows who knows what it's going to look like February 1st  if we don't have a real kind of firm metric in place on, I will vote on a metric, but I, I can't. I'm not comfortable voting on a date.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So when we went to remote last week, we were looking at what was the community spread was a number. I don't remember what the heck it was, but it's

[11262-241] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: Going to I'm going to.
TEXT> Oh, sorry. And I'm going to answer the question, Heather, that I know that you always ask our kids safe in school. We have 27 staff members out. We cannot have the kids in the school building and assure that they're going to be safe. So I would answer that question as as much as we would love to say yes, the answer is going to be no.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No, I recognize I recognize with the staffing numbers what your issue is, and I'm not debating that. And, you know, there's no way I cannot support I mean, obviously

[11262-247] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-01-13
PREV> Donna Magoon: over 40 people, I'm always told, attended this party. So I do know that there was things happening on. Right, right. And Frank, just to let you know, I don't know if you can see, but Rob has had his hand up a few times.
TEXT> Okay, I can't Rob's not in my scroll. Go ahead Rob, I'm just wanting to touch base on the metric aspect because I thought we had a metric  and a lot of the metric was based off of what we're seeing from the Act Now website, which specifically dictates that schools should enable remote learning for all students currently. I mean, is there another metric that you're looking for?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: There's a blended that was school impact. There was a there was a variety of metrics in there. But moving forward, are we going to focus on positivity rate? Are

[11262-259] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-13
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: And I think everyone can agree. And even if our, our our rate was lower, let's say we were under the 1% that if everyone that's getting sick are allegedly teachers and staff that are now out currently we're forced into this position either way.
TEXT> So that's school. That's school impact. So that's part of the metric that exists. But if we have a situation where we have a large number in the community are considered positive, but we have an O low R rate going in, which means that we're really not the replication people aren't contracting it at the rate as they were before. Do we feel comfortable then even though we have high numbers? I'm saying Rob, it's just or are we not? Are we going to do Occam's Razor and come up with just the simplest metric possible and, you know, wash our hands of trying to parse, you know, parse through the data. But my fear is, is if we don't parse through that data, that we're going to end up with kids and remote until, until June. And I mean that I'm afraid the kids are going to be remote to June.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Well.

[11262-261] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Petrin: Well.
TEXT> From my perspective, it's all. Three of those things, right? So we're we're looking red. We know that if, if, we have some control during this period. That, that, that they're out. And it's all those things I don't have if you wanted, you know, and if we had a subcommittee or you want to you have a proposal for a metric, I sometimes I it's it's tough to say. Well, hey, you don't want when this is at 60 and this is at 50 and then we're a go. It's, it's it's capricious. So it's, it's the convergence of all those things.  And and I got to be honest with you, I'm not ready to roll the dice on those things. And I don't know that it's a really unfair. I know how we all feel. All the principals, everyone. We all feel that we want the kids back as soon as possible. I'm hoping it goes down quickly. I was I love that it dipped a little. It could come right back up, but but I don't I don't know that no one has. I think what makes us so uncomfortable is we just don't know. So if I would entertain what people have for perspectives of that  of of where those numbers are, I think certainly it would be in the, in the low 60s, and then it would also be the transmission rate and it would be.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: The positive rate.

[11262-264] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: our factor in those things. I'm just looking at what general practice is. And most people in our region have have gone to remote or hybrid already with a third of the numbers we have. And I don't think we're, you know, I don't think.
TEXT> Right. So here's the thing that, Heather, I think I think I know I understand what you're saying, okay, I fully do. So we go. So if we go remote, when do we bring the kids back? That's what your question is. And I think that's what we need to come up with. Right. We need to come up with something. What's what's the determining factor. We already have a matrix in place that says when do we go remote? We go remote. Right now our matrix is saying the level of school impact. It's high. The level of community transmission is high.  We should be in remote. We should be in remote.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No, I'm not okay.

[11262-279] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I, I guess I don't know, positive vibes. That's what we're hoping it looks it looks so ominous when you look at the numbers and the recent spike. But I'm hoping it goes down. I we we all are. We don't. It's it's just, I.
TEXT> Mike nothing precludes you from coming back and saying I recommend an earlier date based on a significant change in the numbers. It's hard. And the teachers, it's hard on the families and the kids. But we could always make a determination to come back earlier if the numbers go in the right direction. We're just trying to give a feel that the first is our next time that we believe is the time to look, to look into it again.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Well.

[11262-281] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Petrin: Well.
TEXT> Here's the other thing that we're doing. We're also working on those 65 placement of the students coming back. We're we need time to do that. We're reaching out. We're contacting we're moving staff. There's a there's a lot to this. We're moving furniture out of rooms and the like. And I do think I think Jason wants wants to go next. All right.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank.

[11262-301] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Petrin: Jason.
TEXT> So. We've had cases, a couple cases with with some spread at the middle school. We've had some at the high school and we had  one at Maple Ave, but for the most part, not a ton at the elementary level, right? Am I correct? That's not all I'm going to say.  I guess my concern is the elementary school kids in general. I think people who are much smarter than me about child  development would, would say that you're going to get most of your solid foundation by what about third grade? And if you miss that, then you're sort of set on a trajectory for  not as great as an experience as you could have had.  So has it been any conversation or thought as to trying to keep the elementary school in session  or, instead of just all or nothing? Because  at one point we had the conversation that we really had to look at it from school to school, rather than a whole  conglomerate of all of the schools together.  So  has there been any consideration to that?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So there, there. And I know we have some principals on there too, if they want to chime in, but we, we have it's a big consideration. So we

[11262-339] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-13
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Better, player.
TEXT> So I just want to make the point that I think we can base some of the matrix on what?  Donna can, gather as far as teachers and staff that are coming off quarantine and they're ready to come back. That's a school impact. That's how we look at school impact. And then we also base it partially on the community numbers. Me personally, right now with the staff members that are out or have to be out on quarantine, I don't think the education that kids will be getting in school is any is so splitting up. So we have some remote, some in school is not going to do justice for any of the kids. So right now with the school impact, I can't support going back to school. I support going you're continuing remote. I guess with that said, I'll make a motion if we want.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Go ahead.

[11262-409] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thanks, Ray.
TEXT> I do know that this comment that I'm going to, that I'm going to say is probably I'm probably going to upset people. But being the one that does Covid, I got one kid that test positive on a basketball team. The whole team is done. And so because you can't justify where this kid is, you, you know, so we're talking 20, 30 kids possibly. So as much as I love sports, it, if we can't, the kids can't be educated in the buildings and we shouldn't be having sports.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Other other citizens that would like to speak.

[11262-412] Lisa | Public commenter, third grade teacher in the district (announced as 'L | 2021-01-13
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah, you have Lisa. Lisa.. I am.
TEXT> I'm a third grade teacher in the district. I, I this is a tough call all the way around. You know, this is a very, very caring community.  We care about, especially for our kids. We care about our kids. So, you know, we want them to be safe. We want we want our, our friends and our loved ones to be safe. It's just a really tough call. I do want to say that our the elementary school kids, they really.  They need to be in school. I really appreciate that you're looking  out for us. They. They need to know how to read and and write and do their math. And I know it's tough on them, to do it remotely. This this year is a lot better than it was last spring.  Just because we have more knowledge, we have more experience. We're learning how to do this thing, this remote thing better. But as soon as we can, we we need to get them back so we can we can just, explore together and, you know, question together and read together and do all those wonderful things together. I,  I appreciated. I think it's Jason. It says just because I've had. But I think it's Jason.  His comment about k three kids,
NEXT> Lisa: You know, at third grade. They're they're just starting to learn to read and going to read to learn. And I'm concerned for them. I know that I'm just concerned

[11276-79] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: through attrition that are being anticipated to be reduced. Superintendent and Tempesta can speak to it in more detail, but this is just looking at the class sizes, the offerings that we have and saying, is it an expense that we really need to have?
TEXT> But if a position vacates or someone retires, then question needs to be not just, well, we need to put it back, but do we need that position?  Can we either not have to have it and reduce the budget? Or can we look at alternative investment strategies so as to support the strategic plan? But there is included in here yet to be finalized, a reduction in positions of $584,000. The next line items are just informational. I had spoken about the maintenance  where there's the reduction in the maintenance budget, which is included above, and the district wide, and transportation  is seeing a modest increase for next year. Excuse me. And that also is captured within the district wide total dollars. Technology investments are down from  what was in the budget this year. Going into next year, the district certainly has benefited from the CARES act money, the money that came from the federal government related to the pandemic. And,  Jeff Small has been investing heavily in technology to support remote learning and also to support once the kids are back in the classroom, just an improved level of technology to support the learning that we have.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: But with the investments we've made this year, we're looking at a reduced level of investment for next year and hopefully to continue to see that as we benefit from

[11276-91] Tracy Pope | School District Moderator | 2021-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: at those things with historical enrollments and kind of in kind of a shift towards what's popular for for our, for students and what they need. So, all of it in line with the strategic plan and but, but but it's shaping up quite nicely.
TEXT> So thank you.  Superintendent Michael Tempesta and assistant superintendent, Richard Siemens, any registered voters wishing to speak for or against article two, the main budget? I remind you comments, concerns or requested amendments can be submitted to Melissa Small between now and 4 p.m. February 4th via email to 2021. Claremont meeting all one word at Saw 6.org  or mailed to her at the SA offices, 165 Broad Street, Claremont, New Hampshire. I will now close discussion on article two on behalf of myself and the school district, I want to thank you for your virtual tendance at tonight's meeting and again remind you the school district warrant and agendas can be found on the school district web page. Members of the public may access the meeting online via a link shown on the school district's web page. Claremont residents can also view these meetings on CCTV channel eight. Members of the public may watch the meeting in person via live streaming at Stevens High School Auditorium, 175 Broad Street, Claremont, New Hampshire. If you would like to reserve a seat at Stevens High School, please call Melissa Small at 5434200, extension 6009. Comments, concerns or requested amendments can be submitted to Melissa Small.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Between now and 4 p.m. on February 4th via email to 2021. Claremont meeting at Saw six dot or or mailed to her at the Saw offices, 165 Broad Street,

[11281-26] Mrs. Pope | School district moderator (addressed 'Mrs. Pope' and 'Madam moderator' | 2021-02-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: by line through this budget, with the administration, with the principals, with the people that put the budget together. So this is, not at all a rubber stamp budget. This has been gone through thoroughly and, fully backed by the school board. So thank you.
TEXT> Thank you so much, Mr. Peterson. And thank the subcommittee for all their hard work. I there any other school board members wishing to speak? Seeing none, I would like to now close discussion on Attica two and move this Attica to the alternative ballot as posted on behalf of myself and the school district, I want to thank you for your virtual attendance at tonight's meeting and again, remind you voting will be from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. on March 9th, 2021. Ward one will be voting at Stevens High School, located at 175 Broad Street, Claremont, New Hampshire, where two will be voting at the Claremont Middle School located at 17107 South Street. Claremont, New Hampshire and Ward three will be voting at Distant Elementary School, located at 160 Hanover Street, Claremont, New Hampshire. Voters participating in drive thru voting will be required to press the driver's license or state issued identification card against the window of their vehicle to be checked in. Walk through voting will be allowed in all three voting places.
NEXT> Mrs. Pope: As in any city election, absentee voting will also be available. Absentee registration is allowed is allowed for residential or temporarily absent from the city, such as college students and

[11390-7] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: with this is that this actually happened a year ago. Almost to the day or within five days. Last last week, a little bit. But the we were pouring out, and then everything stopped. We have had a lot of time to to review these.
TEXT> And most of them, we're just going to  begin again  with, with the committee work and other other highlights. And I'll start going through those now.  Our, our focus areas for the strategic plan.  Next slide please, Mr. Small.  Are to increase the learning and and and teaching at saw six  predicated upon increased student achievement.  Increasing student time on learning. And that also has a little bit more meaning than it did at the end of last year, in that we have a lot more experience for, for better or for worse. And I think there's been many positive gains  with this, with the blended learning environment where people have,  have had a lot of  support in individual instruction through  computers as well. Absolutely no substitute and can never supplant in-person learning and things like that. But what we have learned with that,  we're, we're we're hopeful that we can carry some of those lessons learned towards,  different platforms and things like that and supports for students.  We are often running on the recruiting, the best and the brightest.  We we have a,  again, our budget is approved.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have some many retirements. It we're looking forward. We have some online hiring fairs for, at area colleges. And we already have interview scheduled, which is exciting that that

[11390-11] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we have two platforms. We have some students who are being taught remotely by teachers who are also remote. And as we're looking at this, that's what we have a couple of meetings coming up to. We may have to have some teachers come back.
TEXT> We don't know exactly what the impact will be. We will have all of that,  with the with  in finality for the next meeting. But we're we're still in process for that. But it's looking it's looking very hopeful. And at first I thought and I see it in there now, I had 85% return when I sent this out. But  after a week of doing it, the principals from the calls that they're making think the number is going to be higher than that. So it could be over over 90% back, which is which is wonderful, you know, so that that's what we're hoping for.  Very, very  positive on that.  We still  have the, the obstacle of and we're still we're talking about students being masks and still adhering to all the protocols that we have. It also helps in the spring,  going  towards towards summer as well as that we're we're outside even more  in and  in the like so that that's, that's looking like it's trending very much in our favor to be able to do all of that. All right. This  this is a next slide, please. Just a clip from the governor's.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: News conference. It still has. And we just have some of the guidance today. Like I said, I did this last week to get it to the board, and we

[11390-32] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Know. Well well taken. All right. And I think that's I think that's all I had in my report. Anyone has questions on it or. Sure.
TEXT> I just want to keep beating this dead horse. What percentage of our students are  functioning on grade level? Do we have a sense of where the student body is?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We don't.

[11390-34] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: We don't.
TEXT> We don't have an exact percentage of who's we're. I will say that. Everyone this year, for all students, it has been greatly diminished. We we we don't have  a metric or anything right now looking we're looking more holistic at. It's at student gains and deficits. We don't we don't have like an exit. You know,
NEXT> Donna Magoon: There was no standardized testing this year.

[11390-50] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Unidentified: Including our more. Yes.
TEXT> Well we worked hard for it. And if not for the adherence to all the protocols in the in the staffing and all the equipment and all the I mean, staff are doing an amazing job holding up everything they have been and the kids have been fabulous. It's it's no picnic. But  the younger the kid, it seems,  the more they fall into it and that they don't even think about it anymore. It'll be great when all the masks are off and we're not looking like we are around the room as well. But,  but they've been rock stars, so it's it's been great.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay, sure.

[11390-52] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-03-17
PREV> Unidentified: Okay, sure.
TEXT> I just have a high level anxiety about promoting kids that are not at grade level and how I mean, it seems like every, every grade is behind. So how are we going to manage that to make to ensure that the kids that are graduating in five years are actually meeting those benchmarks? When this cares, money runs out. Yeah.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So it's it's fair. So so we hope it's just as quickly as we can. We're attacking it by individual tutoring. We're attacking it by summer programs like this. The

[11390-142] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: April 12th. That's okay. And then my other question or comment would be then I believe you said that. So as we're coming up to that date, we're reassessing whether we can bust the high school kids or not. We're looking.
TEXT> At we're looking at what we what we would have. So approximately right now, last time we looked at the bus numbers, with the stagger in the way we had it, ridership was about, on average, I think 15 or so kids on a bus. We know when they when they come back and that's and that's very that's the average. So some are some are up at 20. The panel and her crew, I was on the phone with them today. They do an amazing job. They have a color coded. All the sibs that are in one seat. They stretch it as much as they can do it.  And now what they're doing keeping up with the on thanks to we love Google docs. Right. So as as the as  the people on the phones and the schools are putting them into Google Doc, they're looking at the Google Docs, ascertaining the, the bus route, the you know, they they know the kids, you know, from the years and stuff like that. They're doing that really quickly, giving us nearly real time responses as to the capacity of those busses. So we're meeting tomorrow to look at that. And, and we're, we're,  we're optimistic. Why not be okay until, until we have to do our next shift and our wave? But.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So maybe slightly off topic, but as we look going back fourth quarter, I think even right now, I'm hopeful that we're also looking at the return of the clubs,

[11390-146] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: So can I ask what is following up on Mike's comment? What's the what is the obstacle to, Key Club or.
TEXT> Well, I, I don't know the exact roster. How many kids in the room in the, in all that stuff, so I can't speak directly to it. But I know initially that was part of it. And initially there were, I don't know if it was the broadcasting in every room, I would think it would be  able to do it on a smart board or things like that. Even if the kids were mostly I think they're they're on the broadcasting in. Right.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Currently Key. Club is virtual.

[11390-275] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair this meeting [127-132]) | 2021-03-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: mean, we all know that there are inadequacies in the state. We all know that towns have advantages. The big and I talked to Mike Tempesta about this already. One of the big takeaways for me and Carolyn, I appreciate it when you do this.
TEXT> If you'd either mention it or listen for it is one of the things that they've said that makes, this difficult is the fact that many people are convinced that New Hampshire students are doing just fine academically. And so what is the problem? Our students perform highly. They perform well.  I used to be a guidance director years ago, and I had students who were vying for National Merit scholarships  and other awards associated with College Board testing. And when I would look to see who the kids were that were National Merit Finalists and such.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Concentrated.

[11390-277] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair this meeting [127-132]) | 2021-03-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Concentrated.
TEXT> They were going to schools like Saint Paul's, K way, Hampton School. So not only are our New Hampshire kids included in the data, and not only the best and brightest from the United States factored into the New Hampshire data, but the some of the best and brightest in the world are factored into the New Hampshire data because of the of the drawing power of these schools. So I sent in the question if they have disaggregated in looking at student achievement at in New Hampshire, have you disaggregated schools who are kids, who are non New Hampshire residents and not and non United States residents that are actually factored into the New Hampshire testing. So I think that's important. You know, when people are talking about, gee our kids are doing great. Well why are they. Do you know who's doing great. So I think it's an important thing to bring up. I sent that off to you and H. I have not heard back yet. So from them on a response. So that being said.  So these are our interesting these these these professional development opportunities.  So looking at the future agenda items, I would ask the administration if there's anything on there that you could bring to us  April 7th that we could. Could talk about April.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we we are still finalizing. I'm sorry.

[11390-281] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So that that that probably will be ready for May. I would anticipate. But we're also trying to find a way to report that out. And that's what we're seeing with with the the system. So I think that would be May in terms of.
TEXT> We may be able we may have preliminary numbers on. But I don't know that we would have that. I know we can report I know that we're doing that now. We're lining those kids up and ready to intervene. You know, for the summer program, just that I mentioned.  And that is impacts to remote learning and plans to assist them. High school schedules, the same grading system. Pay to play sports is something we talked about before. We could we could bring that up again. I don't know that I'd have a proposal ready. And that came up for those of you who who don't know, we had some historical, relationships with students that really came out, like everything else during Covid, where in one case, student was from Vermont or other people from other towns were playing in our middle school programs, and we we charged them, you know, a fee. And just the idea of that in general, we're where is the board on  on that if we want to talk about that, we can put that on as a board item. I think that would be maybe referred to a, a policy and committee as well. But, that might.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Be because I know one of the other things that we look at is that's very touchy for high school, because high school, you can't it's almost like setting up

[11390-282] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that in general, we're where is the board on on that if we want to talk about that, we can put that on as a board item. I think that would be maybe referred to a, a policy and committee as well. But, that might.
TEXT> Be because I know one of the other things that we look at is that's very touchy for high school, because high school, you can't it's almost like setting up a team. Right? So if you have the the school that has the best team and all of a sudden they start having, you know, oh, I like this team. I'm just going to pay for my kid to be on that go. You know, on that team there's been an issue. So that's  they they  frown on that in high school levels.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[11390-284] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-03-17
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So my asking you about that is not necessarily the kids that are out of district. My question is do we look at a pay to play for all students  okay. To offset a bit of the budget in the expense of sports? Do we look at it I mean, a small fee schedule, I would assume  football would cost more to play than bowling team, but okay. My question was do we look at that for all students? Are there any schools that currently do that?  Is that something we want to look as a board want to look at. So it's that kids from the district is one piece but pay to play for all students was my question. Okay.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, I mean, I, I can try to have Doug put some together and see what he knows about that with with the with the councils. I'm not aware of

[11444-58] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (uncertain - not  | 2021-04-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Opposed? Perfect. Student representative. Report.
TEXT> River Valley Regional Technical Center five programs will be offered this summer to middle school students. Registration will be shared next week. The options are culinary, computers and business. Explore your future career searching, building with wood, robotics and engineering. And then on April 19th, the Tech Center will host eighth graders from Claremont and Unity to showcase our programs and give some hands on experiences. Students from our current programs will be tour guides and then, in cooperation with the Sullivan County Jail, the two week inmate program will take place again this summer, and National Technical Honor Society students have been identified and contacted, and an award ceremony will take place later to semester at Stevens. Quarter three will be ending this Friday, April 9th. Students should have all assignments completed and submitted by the end of the day on the ninth.  A big congratulations to Gabby Szabo for being named the 2021 New Hampshire You can Government editor in chief, and then seniors should be checking their emails regularly for updates on senior activities and updates on the local scholarship packet. That packet is due by the end of the school day on the 20th of April, and is worth more than $100,000, and make sure for the seniors to submit their application to be considered for this extremely generous contribution at the Claremont Middle School.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: The middle school will be hosting its first ever virtual book fair. The link is inside of the report given and will be accessible online at Disney. They're super excited

[11444-59] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (uncertain - not  | 2021-04-07
PREV> Prescott Herzog: That packet is due by the end of the school day on the 20th of April, and is worth more than $100,000, and make sure for the seniors to submit their application to be considered for this extremely generous contribution at the Claremont Middle School.
TEXT> The middle school will be hosting its first ever virtual book fair.  The link is inside of the report given  and will be accessible online at Disney. They're super excited to welcome even more Disney friends back to in-person learning on April 12th. Students here are returning to in-person learning should bring all of their school supplies back with them. We look forward to connect. Continue to connect online for those who are remaining remote. And then congratulations to last week's winning classes for School Spirit. Miss Clinton clinics, kindergarten and Miss Sergeant second graders. And then at Maple Avenue  on April 12th, Maple Ave will be the school with the highest percentage of in-person learners to accommodate all of those returning to in-person learning. We will welcome back all of our current remote teachers and the students who have chosen to return. All remote students who are returning will have the classroom teachers that they have been working with remotely. And then the two would like to announce that they are having a spirit workshop sponsored by Ink Factory, and it is up and running. Please check  the link. It's not in this document, but  it's on the Maple Avenue  newsletter  to get tees, hoodies and vest for youth and adult sizes. And then attached at the bottom is the flier for the sea six summer program, upcoming this summer.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[11444-61] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-04-07
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Questions for the student left for comments. I'd like to make  a quick comment. Something that,  for the benefit of the graduating class, is that the alumni association has  updated their web page. They have,  now,   are excepting PayPal. So if you go in and look at their scholarships, you can actually toggle down the ones that the scholarships that you would like to donate to. You can select an amount and then you don't have to write a check. You just simply get on and select PayPal. And you can make a contribution of any size that you'd like to, any scholarship that you'd like.  Right on their updated web page. So I would encourage people who aren't even Stephen's graduates to go in and take a look,  and donate some money to our deserving seniors to help them with their college plans. So I know that's up and running. All right. Superintendents report.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Sure. That's, I'd like to know. That was just a piggy back off of that. I know that was a long time in communication with the alumni association. Kind of

[11444-97] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: So there's kind of like a rubric or an or something that.
TEXT> So what? It's So what we have is we have general guidance of how we can use it for the in literally there's the three bullets that are in, in your, in the, in the packet that you can use it. You use it for  for for gaps. You can use it for  a  few things. What has  come around. And this this happens sometimes when things happen. I think the change of all of this  of this year and basically money's coming in. It's being allocated in their, their, the guidelines and  things are changing as fast as they're putting the money out there. So I don't know how to say it any more clearly than that. But  so for example, so we have also heard talk that there would be for the first allocation of, of,  of cares to that there would be a certain percentage that you can use of up to 25% for immediate impact to, to remediate,  deficits from student learning. Again, that general  language, you're looking at 400,000. You know, more than enough for what we're planning. We're planning is generally and conservatively as we can, but we're also aggressively hiring in booking camps and doing all these things. We started this camp that is going to be preregistration all this a month ago, knowing this was coming five weeks ago, like it was more than a month ago.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And and now we'll be signing people out, working with the community center to do that as soon as possible. So in the, you know, to look at it in

[11444-110] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: say. They say this to me a lot. It's, it's it's been a lot that, you know, but it, it's, it's been a heck of a week. And my hat's off to, to all of the work that's been done. So we're, we're on it.
TEXT> So like, oh,  I had. To just a comment or. Question, I guess. To me, it's great to see, you know, I'm taking my son up at the park and seeing all the kids out there practicing and,  back to sports. And I know people are working hard. The I still see that maybe lagging behind, and I'm not sure why. Maybe they need a push. Maybe there's just there's not the voice that sports has for some of the other or the smaller groups, the smaller after school groups, the smaller drama groups, the course, the,  band, things like that just seem to be to me. And maybe it's just my opinion still lagging behind.  I mean, I think we're at the point where we're really from the top down from administration to principals really need to be asking the question of why, if we're not seeing a return to these after school programs, they're not picking up again, the, you know,  choirs, band drama, are they looking to do performances? And if if we're not looking at something, the question from the top street, why not? Why are we not looking to adapt these? Because I think those are the, you know, those kids need a voice to. And they they're not one big collaborative group. I hate to keep saying sports with sports is a is a bigger, loud group.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: They have the force behind them, our drama and arts and, smaller after school programs don't have that voice. So I'd like to see the voice coming from us from

[11444-117] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-07
PREV> Donna Magoon: I think because it's the size of them and there's just not a room enough for social distancing. And so at the time things are going on, there may be a space.
TEXT> I think, if they're still meeting, in my opinion, if they're still meeting virtually still why there should be space. It's nice whether there's plenty of space outdoors.  Drama programs should be, in my opinion, thinking about planning a maybe it's too late for this year, but planning some sort of performance could be performed outside, but not be the best sound quality if you know. But these kids deserve to have to be up on stage. Whether it's drama, choir, band in front of the people,  with the appropriate measures taken, I just.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[11444-125] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (uncertain - not  | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Guess what I might have.
TEXT> Sorry, I. Was just going to. Say like. So like most of my, my clubs that I'm doing online,  are  online and meeting and I think that it's just because like disproportionately the members  and specifically leadership in a lot of these clubs are remote students. And so in order for there to still be like that, that access and for them to participate in, like actually be in, commit to their leadership positions. The meetings still need to be online.  I know at the beginning when there was more people who were online, National Honor Society was trying to meet inside of the, the, the auditorium. And it was just like there was like echoing. And it's like it's really complicated to try and be doing both the like, the in-person and the remote. So like with youth and government, we just meet Wednesdays after school  on a Google classroom, and that kind of works best just to make sure that everybody can join if they want to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think Mr.. Peters concern, though, is that there are groups out there that that want to assemble as. Physically. Physically as groups and, and are being denied that. I

[11444-141] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-07
PREV> Unidentified: The school. The questions.
TEXT> I just have one concern about the marketing of the summer program or,  not only the marketing, but targeting it to specific students are our students that are in high risk or high need. Are are people reaching out to their families to really encourage them? Are we able to identify which students are at higher risk for the greatest disparity.
NEXT> Unidentified: And yeah.

[11444-172] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: go towards stuff. So we have forget the exact count. Jeff, I think is 100 and 140. State of the art smart board I pads like 65. Amazing. Each classroom is outfitted in the district. It has a camera capacity and follows a the teacher.
TEXT> It can be used for distance learning. It can be used by the kids to present. And it's just it's just wonderful stuff.  And that's what it is. It is for exactly that, for stuff to bridge the gap, the spirit of the grant to. And we've all we've only had a couple meetings so far. I have with  Superintendent Landry and Superintendent Minahan about how we can also look to programmatically, maybe use that technology that each of us now has in the schools to share learning opportunities for kids, clubs, all  these other types of things we can do. So we're excited about that part. That's the after it is,  you know, for future years. But that's that's what the commitment commit. What you're doing is accepting the money. We have a small match that we have to do, which is $80,000 for the to match to get. It's a 8515  ratio. What that that money is already budgeted. We're putting in the same boards that Jeff and his crew have already started. We're just finishing the job with this for 50. So it really is just accepting that, getting it in the minutes that it has the blessing of the board and going forward.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[11444-231] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: think we, we know that we have had the issue for middle school teams and other things creep up where we've let people come in. I think we just iron that out, how how we're going to do it so that we start next year.
TEXT> Clean,  whether it's a nominal fee or whatever. We don't want to detract to the degree to which we promote people to come to,  to Claremont and to eventually play for Stevens, that's one avenue. But we also want to make sure that it's,  you know, it's not an infringement or displacement for taxpayers in what they pay for services, including athletics for their kids. So there's a little bit of substance to that that we can that we can,  kind of hash out,  a lot of the things,  we can look at some of the data. We had people start pulling the data.  And a lot of that's in process. We looked at the historical values where we were, particularly at the high school and some of those other things, but they don't know yet because it's second midway through.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are we talking achievement levels? H is that what your.

[11444-260] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Unidentified: Retreat agenda. I mean, that'll.
TEXT> Be in there for that. That is a goal. So one of the goals that we have for that is,  time on learning, which it's, it's in that goal.  It's it's exactly how we're using the resources we have for the grade level, for interventions and for student achievement. So one and that's, that's what started that, that whole thing that we thought we could do it better. We could have fewer kids in the class in, in  and look at it closely and have more concentrated interventions, particularly for literacy. K two that was our target right away. And then go three five different kind of developmental band. And that's that's where that, that's that's the discussion we had seemed like it was three years ago, but.
NEXT> Unidentified: It was last year.

[11510-15] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: To accept the meeting. Minutes from April 18th, 2021. School board retreat and April 7th, 2021.
TEXT> We'll give it to Josh. Okay. Further discussion on the minutes. All those in favor  opposed? Citizens comments. Do we have any citizens with this? Seeing none, I'll close citizens comments and we'll go to our student report.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: We just got to spring break. They emailed the board saying that there wasn't going to be one. Yeah.

[11510-34] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the web for beginning tomorrow. We are going to have improvement plans, yearly improvement plans, and some advisory councils to the schools that piggyback off of the existing school council leadership teams that that they have, but trying to create more of a feedback loop.
TEXT> In the community also superintendents advisory council.  Next. Next slide please. And these these are the  the focus areas  that we have. We boiled it down to learning and teaching at six to improve all student achievement. Increasing  and individualized student time on learning, recruiting and retaining the best possible staff.  School safety  SL, which is the acronym for Social Emotional Learning,  Student Welfare and the Return to Normalcy. Imagine that. Okay. So that's that's that's what we're shooting for.  It's on a call today with some doctors from are  from from Dartmouth. And we don't know exactly what normalcy will be. But  but we want to we want to go back to education as it used to be in person  in a similar vein, but,  creating in district special ed programing. A continuation of that at saw six to, to educate students  in their own with their peers  in  revamping district and school governance structures.  Next slide please, Mr. Small. So the  the largest focus on, on things that we're, we're looking at is are  the first  2 or 3. All of them are important and none more important than the learning and teaching and how we support that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And the specific bullets that we're looking at that will break out in our administrative team when we when we go plan and things like that at our, we'll have

[11510-35] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: structures. Next slide please, Mr. Small. So the the largest focus on, on things that we're, we're looking at is are the first 2 or 3. All of them are important and none more important than the learning and teaching and how we support that.
TEXT> And the specific bullets that we're looking at that will break out in our administrative team  when we when we  go plan and things like that at our,  we'll have a retreat to close the year and a retreat to,  to open the year as well.  But we're going to be looking at student time per class and subject area, really taking a deeper dive into the historical data. The last 2 or 3 years, the trends of what we've had for enrollment,  what the expectations are,  you know, in the community for higher ed, for all the options for kids. Looking at  class size and resource  analysis all the way through through K to 12  blended learning opportunities for students and staff,  meeting and  technology environments, other types of environments that we'll talk about as well. Benchmarking and measuring student achievement consistently so that we're visiting those each year. And  you can't show growth or measure growth both in groups  or individually for students, unless you're tracking that and not that. We don't do that, but we want to look at  some  other, other measures to do  things like that. And again, the difference between the individual  student achievement,  students own personal growth in gains and competency skills and other outcomes,  as well as  looking at group achievement.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So the graduating class, how many kids went on looking at an exit data, other types of things that the guidance departments doing a they have just some some very

[11510-38] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: different, but, collegiate experiences with the community college looking how we can do that in kind of the traditional ellos that we have. We have many opportunities for this, but we want to dig in to see which sets of those experience match each kid.
TEXT> So you don't necessarily have to be  tech center kid to have  an internship in the community. And we want to reach out and kind of match those things up.  And, and just really reach out to how we can get more supports, particularly  stepping stone,  targeted career support  for kids investigating  work opportunities. School calendars, embedded  PLCs and kind of paradigm shifts to how we go about that so that we're constantly having a  competencies with our own expectations for teachers and learning and things like that. And again, we'll have a presentation on that because I think it's wonderful work that's being done.  The aligning the PD. And I know that it sounds like it's an obvious thing, but sometimes it's a lot harder than, than it is of, of  focusing on the student outcomes.  For what? For what teachers are doing. There's a lot going on. And also  what's exciting to us, and I think we talked about it before, we're starting to,  get tremendous  gains from the cares. You hear these if you  use at home the esser in the cares money. These are Covid relief.  Federal funding that doesn't  is outside of the taxpayer's budget. But we have the opportunity to use that money  as we're using it for the summer camp now to  focus on  learning  deficits and things like that because of Covid.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But we have the opportunity to also have extended day and programing opportunities, push in things like, and we were talking today about targeting our learning centers and libraries. To

[11510-39] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: money. These are Covid relief. Federal funding that doesn't is outside of the taxpayer's budget. But we have the opportunity to use that money as we're using it for the summer camp now to focus on learning deficits and things like that because of Covid.
TEXT> But we have the opportunity to also have extended day  and programing opportunities, push in things like,  and we were talking today about targeting our learning centers and libraries.  To make those more, more  modern and have complete sets. It's an infusion of  support. That is it's just it's really exciting for us. We're all  we're talking about today. We're exhausted from  almost a survival theme of this year, like everyone else and every other sector.  But it  really is,  you know,  invigorating to think about what we're going to be able to do for, for the kids over the next couple of years. Next one.  Mr. small  recruiting and retaining the best and brightest staff. We already did get a great start on this and we're pushing it. It's a very competitive market right now. We're discussing that today in our leadership meeting.  Having having specific hiring and recruitment goals. Outwork. Excuse me. Net networking and outreach and partnerships with teacher read programs that we're establishing  multi-level  some courses.  That  at the tech kind of targeting teacher prep classes potentially and have proposals for that.  Consistency with our induction and retention  programs. And we also have   some things that were revamping there. Okay.  Next slide please.
NEXT> Unidentified: Wow. That's a lot of words. Okay.

[11510-41] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: Wow. That's a lot of words. Okay.
TEXT> So school safety SEL and student welfare and the return to normalcy.  Basically we had started that as well with the social emotional learning and having interventions when we expanded a couple  of our social work,  worker positions.  Looking and making sure that that, that we had,  reach out and wraparound supports for kids at each grade level and  we did not foresee, you know, what would how essential that would be in  Covid times. But it's great to have that. And  and they've been doing great work.  Outreach, transparency and interactions with students and families. One measure of that I mentioned was  the governance structures. And doing that physically reaching out with scheduled meetings with more stakeholders  in school affairs, that that's a given. We're also we had a really  a  positive meeting of how we're converting our website to to reach out and target  and get out to folks  as well. And we have a kickoff.  We had the kickoff meetings today, and we're hoping we're looking to roll that out for July.  As well. That's that's when we're targeting it being done.  And resume and expand. And this is,  Principal Barry and her team will talk about this after. It's it's it was  we looked at we looked at a venue  with her and just just getting getting back to as close as we can, just thinking about completely.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We can't commit to exactly what we're going to look like, you know, in the, in the fall. But we're, we're confident with, you know, vaccinations and with protocols that,

[11510-44] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that, to come. The superintendent's advisory council. I'm looking for 6 to 8 community members, business leaders, parents from each level. Just so that we meet regularly, a couple of board members who want to be on on that to to be a nice balance.
TEXT> Some of the things we talked about in the  in the retreat.  We are going to have some  board subcommittee members.  One of the things that we spoke about to is  having a,  committee interest in extracurriculars. We talked about that in here. The balance of extracurricular sports  in all all venues for students within the community, and trying to get a feeder of that and input  from youth or starter or or or music lessons and things like that all the way through, so that we keep our kids  active and vibrant and engaged  throughout to  complement what they're doing in the classroom. So  that's all I have on that. So I didn't think it was that many words to tell you the truth.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions or comments to the superintendent. Moving on to our discussion items. First one is school board goals. And really I'm going to what I'm going to talk about briefly

[11510-58] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the relation to the grades. But I think they have a really great presentation and a look on how to how to report out that a lot of people are going to be happy with it. So without stealing any of that thunder. But I.
TEXT> Thank you for the. Presentation and just kind of, introduce why we're here. Doing this and where we've come from.  It was an enormous amount of work done in this district, and I think before many other schools, we were one of the leaders in competency based education and implementing that here in South Six.  And it was years of work,  and it's an ongoing process.  To refine it and to continue to make sure it's part of our DNA that we are looking at proficiency  and competency when we're grading our, our, our  students and assessing our students. What has not been,  Something that has worked extremely well over time has been the way in which we've reported out on that learning and on that assessment, what we have found.  And it's been something that I heard from pretty much day one  coming on board. I know Frank heard it. You know himself that it's the the language of competency can be sometimes daunting. The semantics can be sometimes foreign. When we talk to parents whose personal experience in school was on 100 point system and an A, B, C, D world, and now we're talking about learning targets and competencies and D's and SB it's, it's hard to, to grasp where their child is in comparison to other students and what those letters mean and what they're seeing in power school.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And so I want to just make sure that there's a clear understanding that we're not talking about abandoning competency based education, at all. We're talking about changing the way

[11510-80] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: grading a student on competency one and he gets an 85 or she gets an 85 on that assignment, okay, we're taking 50% of that. And then on the competency two assignments, we're taking 50% of that to come up to the overall course grade.
TEXT> Again, teachers are still reporting out on the competencies which we believe is important, but they're really not a portion of the student's grade, just the number. So the reason that we think this is important is think about world language. Pretend your child has an 80 or an 85 in world language. And the competencies are speaking, reading and writing. If your student has an 85 and you have a conversation with that teacher, you might be like, why can't my child get an egg? Why can't they get it? We can still have that deep dive conversation which says, well, here's the reason why we're reporting out on those things. We can say they're fine and writing they're fine and reading, but speaking we need to work on. We can improve in that area. We can probably get the child back up. Okay. We're allowing teachers and administrators to see to see an overall course grade much more easily because as  mentioned, right now, when they go into power school, they're seeing a whole bunch of check marks that the student either did something or didn't do something, and they had to start clicking all over the place to open up the standards to see assignment by assignment.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: It's the same complaint that we've had on the parent portal, right? A lot of parents complain about the parent portal, and it's like, I can't see anything. The standards

[11510-82] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: that goes away going back to just giving the student a numerical grade on an assignment. And hopefully if I can attach my phone to this, you'll see how that will pan out. So let me show you how this impacts the teacher very quickly.
TEXT> And while this. Was something I also want to interject while we're going back to numbers and letters, what we don't go back to is a world in which there is extra credit for the sake of getting the numbers up right. So I've got a 64, right? This is 20 years ago. I've got a 64. This is Barry. Give me some work so I can get more points so I can get my grade over to passing. We're not going to do that anymore. That's that's not how it works. That's why it's so important for us to keep these competencies still in there, because, well give you the work that you need to do to get that competency up. But there's no just random extra credit and stuff that you've already done and shown me you know, how to do just to rack up more points. As an English teacher, I would have  probably four competencies reading, writing, presentation, and mugs. Right?  Mechanics, usage and grammar. And so when I hand out an essay and I grade that essay, that essay might be worth 100 points. If it's something that I am going to ask for two drafts on, maybe I give it a 300 point weight.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: But that assignment may live in three different competencies in the reading, in the writing, and in the the mugs competency. If my student shows that they've got an 85

[11510-94] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Which you couldn't do before.
TEXT> Which you couldn't do. But and I don't know if I like that. I kind of think, you know, that kids should be competent in every aspect on a certain level. And our and the way I was seeing is that we were waiting out the value of those competencies as well. But how do we assure that? I mean, I don't think a kid should ever pass a course without having a base competency in all aspects of the course.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And you bring up a very good point. And that's. Where the work of the teachers and administration in, in keeping close tabs on these grades so that we have

[11510-96] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: I give out, I'm going to have Johnny do writing, writing, writing. If he's passing all his other stuff, Johnny's going to write get written to death, right? In the rest of my semester, Sally is going to have reading comprehension work done with her.
TEXT> It's going to be able to laser point for the teacher and for the student and for the parent. Where do I have to spend my time? Where's the work that I have to do in this class to get that grade up to a 70 in all my competencies?  So it right now we just don't have that ability. Looking at the grades, the way they're currently input and to have that ability to to focus that way.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: One of the big challenges and Richard called us to he was I was at the podium and Richard was sitting here, that and Charlie remembers is that computers do

[11510-100] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: don't do the formative and then they just do the summative. And that's the only thing that was getting graded. And our definition in our school of a formative has become very broad, and it almost has been everything that isn't a summit of assessment.
TEXT> What we know is that when when I do a quiz, when I hand out a worksheet, or if I ask kids to do an exit ticket, those are all ways in which they're showing me that they've learned what I've taught them that day in class that can have a grade and it should have a grade. They're showing me they've learned or not learned what I've taught them. Right now, that's not the case. And often the only grades that are in there are, maybe, you know, once or twice a month. And that's all the kids are getting graded on. And it's like when you go to college and it's one grade a semester, and that's the whole enchilada, right? We need we need daily ways of the kids knowing how, where they stand. And so do parents. And so part of what's going to happen at Stephen's in concert with this is a change of process for how we assess students. And looking at grading all of those things that prior were deemed formative and shouldn't be graded, including homework. So when I say tonight's reading is two chapters of To Kill a mockingbird, there's going to be a quiz tomorrow on it.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Kids are going to care. They're going to know that they're going to get a grade on that pop quiz tomorrow, and there's going to be an incentive. So that's

[11510-104] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: graded on it. And look, I'm passing and having to try to explain that to a parent because a parent is saying, that's fluff. If you're not going to grade it, why are you giving it? You know, give my kids stuff that matters, right?
TEXT> We've seen to where parents of my kids working every night at the dining room table, they did this, they did this. I saw them hand this in. Well, that didn't count. That was all formative. What do you mean, it doesn't count? And then they bombed the summative. You know, maybe they had a bad day. Maybe they had a bad night. Maybe their test. You know, a  test. Stress. But so many ways in which our kids are showing us that they know what we've taught them aren't counting. And then we're putting it all into these kind of big chunks. So it both ends  were were difficult conversations that we've had to have with parents with the current system.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: So getting back to the assignment that the staff member puts in, again, let's pretend it's a chapter four test and let's pretend it's for competency. One, I might say

[11510-112] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: 4.0. Unless you're taking those honors classes, AP classes running start where you might have a five. Okay, very, very tight. But the minute we now open it up to nine potential passing grades, that 3 to 4, which is only a one point differential.
TEXT> Now it spans and it goes from 2 to 4. So now for the student that might have all 100 and ends up with an A plus is a 4.0 student. And for the student that's maybe right behind them but slightly behind them. And an A you're now at a 3.75. So you're going to have that accordion effect. It's going to spring out a little bit. Sports eligibility still works the same way because the child has to be passing classes to play. So whether we're issuing p pluses and piece is immaterial. Now it's if they just get A and B and c s. So nothing changes on the sports eligibility side really.  And if Pat wants to chime in, maybe sing a song, do an interlude, I'll see if I can get my phone up so that I can show you what the app would look like so that as a parent, if you're using it now, how that would potentially change. Let me see what I can do for you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Hear me say, Charlie.

[11510-115] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: I do have a question. Being the. Next year I have a senior and they've been on this other grade structure and we switched to this grade structure. How's that going to affect class rank.
TEXT> So it's going to be  level playing field because everyone's going to be playing by the same set of rules. So while it will, like Charlie said, expand GPA and broaden them out.  It, it won't affect some in a way that others aren't affected. So it'll be a transition, but it'll be the same transition for all students, if that makes any sense. Do you want. To add. To that?
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: Yeah, I mean, we went through the same thing, to be perfectly honest, when we went the other way. Right. Think about the students that had a 1.25 GPA when

[11510-116] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: said, expand GPA and broaden them out. It, it won't affect some in a way that others aren't affected. So it'll be a transition, but it'll be the same transition for all students, if that makes any sense. Do you want. To add. To that?
TEXT> Yeah, I mean, we went through the same thing, to be perfectly honest, when we went the other way. Right. Think about the students that had a 1.25 GPA when we were given out. D is now they were being brought up to three. So it's a level playing field. Every single student that's in the same class, you know, if they're all taking the same course, everybody's going to based upon the new rules, everybody's going down based upon the new rules. So and I and I would argue if you were, you know, if you were if you want to call yourself a proficient with distinction student, which was a 4.0. Well, you know, are you going to call yourself now an A+ student because an A+ is going to be a 4.0 unless you're going to use again the new gradation to say, well, I'm only a minus and I'm a 3.5. So yeah, I mean, there's going to be an expansion.  And, you know, I would hope to get to your point that again, that would be an incentive for students to do stuff. I mean, we've talked about homework counting and, you know, counting it for ten, 15, 20 points. But I think at the end of the day, there's a lot of students.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: And Prescott can he can back me up on this or he can I I appreciate his point of view. There are some students that will work to just get

[11510-131] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Prescott Herzog: Yes, yes, yes.
TEXT> And and we don't want to throw the baby out with the bathwater. All the rubrics that teachers have labored on  and put years of work into, we're still going to use that, because those are extremely valuable to the students to know, you know, if I am doing all of these things in this column, that's that's passing proficient work. We don't want to get rid of that language. We don't want to get rid of that dictionary of terminology around proficiency competencies.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: They're right.

[11510-146] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: you're competing with peers, particularly in, collegiate admission, other types of things or I think Prescott's a great example of a course that in many ways isn't even close to the rigor or the thoroughness of expectation that you would have at a Stevens course.
TEXT> It looks on that transfer. Wow, a okay, I get that. And if if our kids are  not competing with  other folks for college admission, for other types of things, then that's an unintended certainly an unintended consequence. But but a significant one,  you know, nonetheless. So that that's why that's why we're here type of thing.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So yeah, I think what we're doing though is we're missing what my question truly is if we adopt this policy, I think this is good. I like what I'm

[11510-148] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: we implement it all the way across the district? I know every class is different, but we need to make sure that the other schools are on board to do so. I'm trying to avoid us going through a middle school presentation, a bluff presentation.
TEXT> Know what what what the board, what you be voting on now is separating the grade reporting from the confidence of reporting. We're still not abandoning either one. We're just going back for more, more, more clarity with the grades for the benefit of the students. We're not getting rid of competencies if you don't learn. I mean, we don't want anyone to to know. So tonight they walk away thinking.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So tonight the vote is across the board, right. So if they vote, if A's to vote yes we approve this the separation. We don't have to come back next

[11510-170] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: that he's extremely hungry, just broke up with his girlfriend, whatever it is. So that's where the question comes in. What happened here? That's the conversation. What happened on this test? This is not what I've been seeing with you in class all semester long.
TEXT> Where did you. Did you. Well, I didn't sleep last night. Whatever it is. Right. That's why we want to continue to have a retake option for students. It's finite. It's not never ending. It's a two week. That's our policy right now. Two week retake option where you have to enter into a contract with that teacher. I want to retake this. This is what I'm going to do differently. Let's work on flex for the next week to prepare you for that retake. And then let's see how you do after that. That grade sticks and that's it.  You're right. In the real world or in college, you don't get a second chance.  But what we're trying to do is, is make sure our kids are getting the content, understanding it, and not penalizing them for  one assessment because it might have had might have had a lot of other mitigating reasons behind it. So,  and the other piece, the second point that you made, Heather, was which the second point was about the competency.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah. Being able to fail a competency and pass the course.

[11510-194] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-05-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: to your limit. But class rank, it should be weighted. And because that demonstrates for higher institution institutions of higher learning where you really are because, you know, a kid could be number one in the class and really not have taken extremely challenging courses.
TEXT> I just want to push back on that. Back in my guidance days, I had a student and it was Wheelock College, and they had a matrix, and there was a at one end was a 1600 SAT score in the old days, two, eight hundreds and then a 400. No, I'm sorry, it was class rank whatever it was. So I asked them if they, it was a forum and I asked them if they waited grades, if they waited them and they said no, we assume the high school is waiting for them. So at that time in Newport, I was working at Newport. We were not waiting grades and but Stevens was. So a student could have be taking AP English here in Claremont and get a five. And the Newport kid would take the same horse and get a four. And yet on this Wheelock matrix would be at a clear disadvantage, not just for admission, but for guaranteed financial aid. And and so that was that's a that's a true story.  And it was a it was we we locked college. I remember calling them about that because I was, I was in fact, I went to the Newport School board with, with the argument with that example about waiting grades and said, we are putting our kids at a gross disadvantage to other kids, specifically Stevens at that time  they're not. And again, not just admission but financial aid.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So Hanover and Bo do not wait grades. And they're super, super competitive schools and they don't wait them because the way I understood and you probably have much more

[11510-204] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: my child sits at home for hours and works on homework or, you know, Steve's whoever child sits at home working on the homework and for them to show up and have that not count is very, that's not the way the real world works.
TEXT> Your boss gives you assignment of work. You better get it done by the due date, or else you know you're gonna something that'll be repercussions.  So I think this kind of. If the if the kid chooses not to do the homework, then they're going to get a negative consequences if they do the homework.  Then you actually, you know, maybe do bad on the, you know, not quite as good on the test, but that homework helps kind of level the playing field. So I, I think this in some of the frustration for those kids that are doing what's assigned.  So I, I, I like the idea of the system.
NEXT> Unidentified: Something you want to make a motion?

[11510-229] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: but fun component to them within a 30 mile radius. And we'll set goals with students on Monday that, you know, these are the goals that you are identifying. You want to meet this week. Then you are eligible for the field trip on Friday.
TEXT> So we're really excited about that.  And we're hoping to do maybe some kind of outdoor classroom or community service component for the students who maybe don't necessarily want to take a field trip or go on a bus, but want to do something around town to start working on their community service hours. We're very excited about having prom. Prom is going to be down at the visitor center under a tent.  It'll look a lot. Sort of like a wedding reception with tables and linens and things like that.  We're going to have the promenade start at. Well, students will get together and be ready for the promenade at 515.  They'll come over the bridge around 530 from the Main Street side of town. They'll walk over the bridge. We have,  one of our teachers, Mr. Fortier. He's an art teacher. Does our digital photography, has his own photography business. He'll take the pictures and we have Josh Nelson of CCTV will stream the promenade live as they come over the bridge.  We have police detail. We have plenty of chaperons who will,  kind of be at the different entrances to ensure that only students who have tickets and it's only juniors or seniors this year who can buy a ticket, they may invite an underclassmen as their date, but no  non Stevens High School students will be admitted.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Masks will be worn. We'll have teachers who will be serving food. So it won't be, you know, there won't be that issue. We will maintain social distancing. You know,

[11510-230] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: of be at the different entrances to ensure that only students who have tickets and it's only juniors or seniors this year who can buy a ticket, they may invite an underclassmen as their date, but no non Stevens High School students will be admitted.
TEXT> Masks will be worn. We'll have teachers who will be serving food. So it won't be, you know, there won't be that issue.  We will maintain social distancing. You know, obviously the masks must stay on throughout the evening. It'll go officially from 6 to 10. And, that's prom. We're very, very excited. We have a DJ. The DJ was DJ we're supposed to have last year and who we had paid. And thankfully he's still available this year, so don't have to lay out any money there.  And very excited about prom. We, as  Mike  alluded to, we at 5:00 today went over to Monarch Farms off Jarvis Hill Road. We took a look at that site for graduation.  And we're very excited about that  because we wanted we know the kids can't have a senior class trip this year. We know that, you know, there's still a lot of components to their end of senior year that don't happen for them. And the biggest money lay out from the class is usually their class trip. And that just not going to happen.  So but we wanted them to have a breakfast this year.  It's an important time when we give out the stoles and the medallions, and we dedicate the yearbook and we talk about we announce the top ten, we show the class video, all of that.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And when we started to think about the logistics of, you know, having graduation maybe here, but then where do we do breakfast and how do we socially distance for

[11510-232] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: be sitting at. And then we will have families clustered. So we'll have either a family we'll have a row, or a family will have their four seats or whatever here. And it'll be identified that when that family comes in, that's where they set.
TEXT> So that there's no, no way that there's not going to be social distancing. And, yeah, we're very excited. We're going to talk to, I believe, Decker Rentals, which is who they work with. We'll have him come out. We'll do a layout, kind of a grid. Then, you know, where will we enter? Where will the seniors sit? Where will the parents sit, that kind of thing. They have we'll get porta potties. It's where we can do the senior breakfast. They have a little kitchen. It used to be an ice cream stand.  So we can operate out of there for, like, a continental breakfast for the kids on Tuesday morning. Then we'll do the first rehearsal right there. That that day, right after the breakfast. It'll probably be like picnic style. They have goats.  And  there's the electricity is right there for the building. So we'll be all set for a PA system. We'll work again with Sam  Scott Hagar, who  works with Sound Works, and he'll help us with  our PA system and making sure that everybody can be heard.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And then we'll have a second rehearsal on Wednesday and then graduation at 6:00 on Thursday night. And we're working with the elementary schools to see if there's a safe,

[11510-233] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: the electricity is right there for the building. So we'll be all set for a PA system. We'll work again with Sam Scott Hagar, who works with Sound Works, and he'll help us with our PA system and making sure that everybody can be heard.
TEXT> And then we'll have a second rehearsal on Wednesday and then graduation at 6:00 on Thursday night.  And we're working with the elementary schools to see if there's a safe, socially distanced way we can still do the walk through  outside, and maybe the kids will be outside in the playground, and we can after our breakfast and after we rehearse, we'll get over there  and visit with their teachers and the littles  at each of the schools in the middle school like we used to be able to do, but we'll just do it outside because that was a  grand event for everybody involved.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: That was the thing that I wanted to ask about most, because I know a lot of people wanted to do the elementary walk, so that's good to know that

[11510-237] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: student, you know, should have done it without the little handle at the end, essentially. And then my next question that kind of piggybacks off why we're kind of doing it is, what's the cost per week for these field trips for several different classes.
TEXT> Most of them are  cost free. I had David Silva do the research on the area of places that had little to no, fees or entrance fees for us to go to.  We the stipend for the summer teachers was based on X number of hours, and we've always had summer school only four days a week and four hours a day. So we're not changing that parameter at all.  But we did feel that kids have been so cloistered and so removed from everything for a year and a half, that we felt it was a good incentive. To your point, though, you know, a student who fails an honors level class when they recover it over the summer, they'll get there. That class credit at a 4.0, but not at a 5.0. So there is a there is a  a bit of a  pain point there  because they didn't get it done in the semester that they were supposed to get it done. And so we don't feel that they should have that weighted grade if it was indeed an honors course. So there's there's one way that there is a specific consequence, but we feel that the field trips are a good incentive.  And a lot of times kids are done in a week or two. You know, because it's just a learning target. Or was one assessment that they, they, they missed. So a lot of these kids, they're there, they're out and gone.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: But it would be nice if they, you know, still wanted to go up, you know, to, you know, gorge or go up to the, King Arthur thing and, you

[11510-239] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: and, you know, maybe bake bread for a day with a group of other kids. And we just think that they've had nothing for a year and a half. This is a way, a cheap, kind of easy way for us to give them something.
TEXT> Think that,  I understand the principal and the fact that people have been cooped up.  But as far as the weighted grade, is that the same for the student that wasn't in an AP or.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: I mean.

[11510-247] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: my mind that's not fair at all because while the AP student is trying to do something harder, they're going to get dinged because they didn't meet that target. But the average Joe student who also did not complete their work is not getting dinged.
TEXT> Well, I mean, they're getting ding because they have to be on the second floor of Stevens High School, maybe for six weeks in the summer instead of out, you know, working a job. It are so many of our students, Steve, have struggled because their incentive was being in a classroom with a live teacher who noticed them and got them going, and being at home in front of a screen in their basement or at their dining room, and maybe with three siblings running around and mom and dad, you know it. It's been a struggle for them to focus, to get the motivation to care.  A lot of our students are, are  are deeply depressed. They're they're they're depressed from not having the socialization that they've needed their friends, the the things that, you know, give all of us joy. And that, first and foremost has been reflected in them ghosting us academically, many of them. And we need to get them back in the classroom. We need them to where we can have them eyeball to eyeball and be what we do best as educators are the motivators for these kids.  And so I think it's not fair, especially in the middle or post near post Covid for us to give any more dings to kids who have failed because so much of this has been out of their control.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And I think we just have to figure out how to get them over the over the finish line.

[11510-261] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain outside segments 36-50 - cl | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: Right. Which don't have the opportunity to take this out.
TEXT> So if they took the test and passed it then they would get a five a five, right. But you only can get the test once in May. The kids that fail it can't do that testing may because it's gone. So all they can get is a four.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I just want that's the clarification I.

[11510-297] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: So yeah.
TEXT> I, I also want to comment on we, we  as Pat said, we we looked at the Monarch Farm layout today and it really hit all those elements. And I do I think the containment of it, the kind of class of it and  and the ample parking right there because I didn't really have a bead on that. It's, it's it's a really beautiful, kind of elegant way to send off. Well, well deserved by the kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: So, so one of the main pitchers you find is your, your.

[11510-335] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: Back right off that.
TEXT> We have a duty to the taxpayer and the students of Claremont, not what school is where what neighborhood is where. We have complaints from our constituents about taxes. We have and I just heard saving money doing this. Then I heard number two complaints about how our kids are doing. Right.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So no doubt.

[11510-384] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: Absolutely.
TEXT> It is. I mean, look at major manufacturing companies like GM, anything with a long chassis is getting built at the same plant. They're not going to build you a Chevy Malibu at that line that's going to get built over here. So essentially really we've talked about, you know, kind of looking at the district as more of a business and our end result, our profits are these children. So I think the simple answer is what we've been discussing to start getting that ball rolling. Because at the end of the day, it's easier to duplicate our results and hold accountabilities where they need to be and give direction and see where the the missing links are if it's all housed together.
NEXT> Unidentified: All right. I just took us down further. Rabbit hole.

[11527-51] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (uncertain - not  | 2021-04-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other second. Set further discussion on the minutes. Okay. Here we go. We haven't done this in a while. All those in favor of approving the minutes of March 17th, 2021 signify by saying aye. Aye aye. Opposed? Perfect. Student representative report.
TEXT> Valley Regional Technical Center five programs will be offered this summer to middle school students. Registration will be shared next week. The options are culinary, computers and business. Explore your future career searching, building with wood, robotics and engineering. And then on April 19th, the Tech Center will host eighth graders from Claremont and Unity to showcase our programs and give some hands on experiences. Students from our current programs will be tour guides and then, in cooperation with the Sullivan County Jail, the two week inmate program will take place again this summer, and National Technical Honor Society students have been identified and contacted, and an award ceremony will take place later to semester at Stevens. Quarter three will be ending this Friday, April 9th. Students should have all assignments completed and submitted by the end of the day on the ninth.  A big congratulations to Gabby Szabo for being named the 2021 New Hampshire Youth and Government Editor in Chief. And then seniors should be checking their emails regularly for updates on senior activities and updates on the local scholarship packet. That packet is due by the end of the school day on the 28th of April, and is worth more than $100,000, and make sure for the seniors to submit their application to be considered for this extremely generous contribution at the Claremont Middle School.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: The middle school will be hosting its first ever virtual book fair. The link is inside of the report given and will be accessible online at Disney. They're super excited

[11527-52] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (uncertain - not  | 2021-04-15
PREV> Prescott Herzog: That packet is due by the end of the school day on the 28th of April, and is worth more than $100,000, and make sure for the seniors to submit their application to be considered for this extremely generous contribution at the Claremont Middle School.
TEXT> The middle school will be hosting its first ever virtual book fair.  The link is inside of the report given and will be accessible online at Disney. They're super excited to welcome even more Disney friends back to in-person learning on April 12th. Students who are returning to in-person learning should bring all of their school supplies back with them. We look forward to connect continue to connect online for those who are remaining remote. And then I congratulate to last week's winning classes for School Spirit. Miss Clinton clinics, kindergarten and Miss Sergeant second graders. And then at Maple Avenue  on April 12th, Maple Ave will be the school with the highest percentage of in-person learners to accommodate all of those returning to in-person learning. We will welcome back all of our current remote teachers and the students who have chosen to return. All remote students who are returning will have the classroom teachers that they have been working with remotely. And then the PTO would like to announce that they are having a spirit workshop sponsored by Ink Factory, and it is up and running. Please check  the link. It's not in this document, but  it's on the Maple Avenue  newsletter  to get tees, hoodies and vest for youth and adult sizes and then attach it to the bottom is the flier for the sixth summer program upcoming this summer.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions for the student left for comments to make a quick comment. Something that, for the benefit of the graduating class, is that the alumni association has updated their web

[11527-53] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-04-15
PREV> Prescott Herzog: Please check the link. It's not in this document, but it's on the Maple Avenue newsletter to get tees, hoodies and vest for youth and adult sizes and then attach it to the bottom is the flier for the sixth summer program upcoming this summer.
TEXT> Questions for the student left for comments to make  a quick comment. Something that,  for the benefit of the graduating class, is that the alumni association has  updated their web page. They have,  now,  are accepting PayPal. So if you go in and look at their scholarships, you can actually toggle down the ones that the scholarships that you would like to donate to. You can select an amount and then you don't have to write a check. You just simply go down and select PayPal. And you can make a contribution of any size that you'd like to, any scholarship that you'd like.  Right on their updated web page. So I would encourage  people who aren't even Stephen's graduates to go in and take a look. And donate some money to our deserving seniors to help them with their college plans. So I know that's up and running.
NEXT> Unidentified: All right. Superintendents report. Sure. That's, I'd like. I know that was just.

[11527-89] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: So there's kind of like a rubric or an or something that.
TEXT> So what? It's, So what we have is we have general guidance of how we can use it for the in literally there's the three bullets that are in, in your, in the, in the packet that you can use, use it for  for for gaps. You can use it for a, a  few things. What has  come around. And this this happens sometimes when things happen. I think the change of all of this  of this year in basically money's coming in. It's being allocated in their, their, the guidelines. And  things are changing as fast as they're putting the money out there. So I don't know how to say it any more clearly than that, but,  so for example, so we have also heard talk that there would be for the first allocation of, of,  of cares to that there would be a certain percentage that you can use of up to 25% for immediate impact to, to remediate,  deficits from student learning. Again, that general  language, you're looking at 400,000. You know, more than enough for what we're planning. We're planning is generally and conservatively as we can, but we're also aggressively hiring in booking camps and doing all these things. We started this camp that is going to be preregistration all this a month ago, knowing this was coming five weeks ago, like it was more than a month ago.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And and now we'll be signing people out, working with the community center to do that as soon as possible. So in the, you know, to look at it in

[11527-101] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Mike.
TEXT> Oh,  I had a just a comment or question, I guess. To me, it's great to see, you know, I'm taking my son up at the park and seeing all the kids out there practicing and,  back to sports.  And I know people are working hard. I still see that maybe lagging behind, and I'm not sure why. Maybe they need a push. Maybe there's just there's not the voice that sports has for some of the other the smaller groups, the smaller after school groups, the smaller drama groups, the course, the,  band, things like that just seem to be to me. And maybe it's just my opinion still lagging behind.  I mean, I think we're at the point where we're really from the top down from administration to principals really need to be asking the question of why, if we're not seeing a return to these after school programs, they're not picking up again, the, you know,  choirs, band drama, are they looking to do performances? And if if we're not looking at something, the question from the top should be, why not? Why are we not looking to adapt these? Because I think those are the, you know, those kids need a voice to and they they're not one big collaborative group. I, I hate to keep saying sports with sports is a is a bigger loud group.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: They have the force behind them. Our drama and arts and, smaller after school programs don't have that voice. So I'd like to see the voice coming from us from

[11527-108] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-15
PREV> Donna Magoon: I mean, because it's the size of them and there's just not a room enough for social distancing. And so at the time things are going on, there may be a space.
TEXT> Use, I think if they're still meeting, in my opinion, if they're still meeting virtually still why there should be space. It's nice whether there's plenty of space outdoors.  Drama programs should be, in my opinion, thinking about planning a I mean, maybe it's too late for this year, but planning some sort of performance could be performed outside, but not be the best sound quality if you know. But these kids deserve to have to be up on stage. Whether it's drama, choir, band in front of the people,  with the appropriate measures taken, I just. Yeah, we I hope we're going that direction. I just don't see it yet. So we.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have had that discussion about having those things. And I will follow up about about where those are, where they are in terms of performances. But we talked about

[11527-115] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (uncertain - not  | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Guess what might have..
TEXT> So I was just going to say like,  so like most of my, my clubs that I'm doing online  are  online and meeting and I think that it's just because like disproportionately the members  and specifically leadership in a lot of these clubs are remote students. And so in order for there to still be like the that access and for them to participate in like actually be in, commit to their leadership positions. The meetings still need to be online.  I know at the beginning when there was more people who were online, National Honor Society was trying to meet inside of the, the, the auditorium. And it was just like there was like echoing. And it's like it's really complicated to try and be doing both the like, the in-person and the remote. So like with youth and government, we just meet Wednesdays after school  on a Google classroom, and that kind of works best just to make sure that everybody can join if they want to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Mr.. Patrons concern, though, is that, that there are groups out there that that want to assemble as physically as groups and, and are being denied that. I

[11527-129] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: The questions.
TEXT> I just have one concern about the marketing of the summer program or,  not only the marketing, but targeting it to specific students are our students that are in high risk or high need. Are people reaching out to their families to really encourage them? Are we able to identify which students are at higher risk for the greatest disparity.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And yeah. So so. We. We two things. One one we we know those students and we we are. We're.

[11527-153] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Moving to the Russ Grant of 451,000 832. Mike, can you talk again just very quickly?
TEXT> As sure. So so,  we we were recipients of this grant. We partnered with,  Fall Mountain and in Newport. Now we get used to it. So,  we've partnered with Fall Mountain,  Newport,  and our tech directors  and  superintendents, and we,  hired a third party.  Outfit out of new Jersey to to write this grant. We we did find out we were the only recipient in New Hampshire of this federal money. 451,000 is what we are going to get in our share. It's $1 million grant because of our size. We had more  need and things like that. And Jeff put together a some great stuff primarily. Most of ours is it's going to go towards stuff. So we have forget the exact count. Jeff I think is 100 140. State of the art smart board. I pads like 65. Amazing.  Each classroom is outfitted in the district. It has a camera  capacity and follows  the teacher. It can be used for distance learning. It can be used by the kids to present. And it's just it's just wonderful stuff.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And that's what it is. It is for exactly that, for stuff to bridge the gap, the spirit of the grant to. And we've all we've only had a couple

[11527-226] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the issue for middle school teams and other things creep up where we've let people come in. I think we just iron that out, how how we're going to do it so that we start next year, clean, whether it's a nominal fee or whatever.
TEXT> We don't want to detract to the degree to which we promote people to come to,  to Claremont and eventually play for Stevens, that's one avenue. But we also want to make sure that it's,  you know, it's not an infringement or displacement for taxpayers in what they pay for services, including athletics, for their kids. So there's a little bit of substance to that that we can that we can  kind of hash out. A lot of the things,  we can look at some of the data we had had people start pulling the data.  And a lot of that's in process. We looked at the historical values where we were particularly at the high school and some of those other things, but they don't know yet because it's second midway through.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are we talking about levels? H is that what.

[11527-259] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Unidentified: Retreat. I mean that'll.
TEXT> Be in there for that. That is a goal. So one of the goals that we have for that is,  time on learning, which it's, it's in that goal.  It's, it's exactly how we're using the resources we have for the grade level, for interventions and for student achievement. So one and that's, that's what started that, that whole thing that we thought we could do it better. We could have fewer kids in the class in, in and look at it closely and have more concentrated interventions, particularly for literacy. K-2 that was our target right away. And then go three five different kind of developmental band. And that's that's where that, that's that's the discussion we had seemed like it was three years ago, but.
NEXT> Unidentified: It was last year. That's that's going to wind up being,

[11649-11] Sean | Stevens High School bowling coach (first name only on the record) | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: right in front of Prescott. If you could kind of grab that. For those of you who who don't know, our our bowling team was, really against the odds. I think this year, my early conversations with Sean indicated that it was a rebuilding year.
TEXT> But yeah, it was. Definitely a adventure year. Adventurous year. Being with Covid and being in a in a bubble kind of ourselves where it's asking and Hillsborough. Darren for the year. It was tough on the kids because usually we travel,  Merrimack,  we travel around different places and it's just hard for the kids because they get they see more competition. We were kind of stuck in a bubble with Keene, which beat us a ton. We I, we bowled them 12 games before the finals and they beat us 11 of them. So when we ended up going up against them to qualify for the states, it was Hillsborough, Darren against them. And then the winner got us and we ended up meeting him two straight right off. And it was a surprise to everybody, mostly me. So it was it was it was good. But the kids kids did really well.  Next year it'll be a little bit of a a little different. I'm going to have all seniors for the whole team. I lost two seats. I'm going to lose two seniors this year, Bryce Weymouth and Clayton Wadsworth. With the two good. I'm I'm losing this year, which were really, really strong for the team.
NEXT> Sean: So I'm hoping the 8 or 9 seniors that I have for next year that are all juniors that are going to come up and do really well, but like

[11649-12] Sean | Stevens High School bowling coach (first name only on the record) | 2021-06-02
PREV> Sean: different. I'm going to have all seniors for the whole team. I lost two seats. I'm going to lose two seniors this year, Bryce Weymouth and Clayton Wadsworth. With the two good. I'm I'm losing this year, which were really, really strong for the team.
TEXT> So I'm hoping the 8 or 9 seniors that I have for next year that are all juniors that are going to come up and do really well, but like I said, it's got to be an easier year than what this past one was with with Covid and not traveling anywhere and being stuck against one of the best teams in the state every week was it was kind of tough for the kids because they were like, oh, we got to blow them again. Oh, we got to do it again. I'm like, we're fine. Just get better, just improve. Every week was the big thing.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So do you want to invite the kiddos up? So I got introduced.

[11649-32] Sean | Stevens High School bowling coach (first name only on the record) | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: So, you know, they've got a wonderful mentor and, and we've got the facility right here in town. So it's, it's just fantastic. So yeah, it's.
TEXT> Really definitely a big shout out to Maple Lanes. He does. He does a lot for us.  He helps all the kids he finds used bowling ball so the kids can use those,  where we had all the kids by their own balls. They buy their own shoes. So it's it's something where we do what we can to do that, and then we we do some fundraising off and on for certain things. We ordered rings. They should be in the first week of July for all the kids. And then we had a  gentleman in Claremont that's a supporter of the of the bowling for years and years. And he bought us jackets again this year. So he's done that twice. So it's been it's been nice. It's been good to have the support from the community also, which is nice.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well congratulations.

[11649-64] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (surna | 2021-06-02
PREV> Prescott Herzog: willing to go above and beyond in order to help me further understand a concept, or make sure that I was able to truly do my best work. However, I would be remiss if I didn't mention some of the improvements that could be made.
TEXT> The same faculty that encouraged me to shoot for the stars and served as a support system throughout high school is rapidly dwindling, either from retirement or to go to other schools in the surrounding area.  And in order to ensure a brighter future for our students graduates, it's vital that the board and the administration dedicate time and energy in order to try and retain teachers who can grow into the holes that are left. And I also think that it's really important to try  and  stop the increasingly dwindling opportunities for advanced classes at the high school.  While it's important to take some  well, you can take some classes with relax.  A trend has continued throughout my high school experience, where dozens of classes that were available when I entered the building aren't  offered anymore, leaving students with intentions of going to college being disadvantages, heading to classrooms to be on Stevens,  and if we want our graduates to compete at an academic level  similar to the community surrounding us, it requires further investment into expanding classes.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: For those like my sister in the eighth grade and then as I finish, I just wanted to give one last thank you to all of the board members and

[11649-65] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (surna | 2021-06-02
PREV> Prescott Herzog: aren't offered anymore, leaving students with intentions of going to college being disadvantages, heading to classrooms to be on Stevens, and if we want our graduates to compete at an academic level similar to the community surrounding us, it requires further investment into expanding classes.
TEXT> For those like my sister in the eighth grade and then as I finish, I just wanted to give one last thank you to all of the board members and the administration for your time and support over the past years. It was really a truly an honor to serve as a voice on the board for the students over the past year, and I really hope that this tradition of providing students that seat at the table continues long after I'm gone from the chair, but this will definitely not be the last time you'll hear from me.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I was going to ask you, Prescott, how you liked working with us and your question.

[11649-71] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-06-02
PREV> Unidentified: Great job. Prescott.
TEXT> Any any other questions or comments for for our student rep in his last meeting?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No, just to thank you for your thoughtful comments. When you did contribute, they were thoughtful and poignant. And they really they helped helped us make decisions about things.

[11649-77] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Wish I had a goodbye gift. For you. Thank you. Prescott. Okay. Moving on. Superintendents report.
TEXT> All right, so  I have, Item in the superintendent report I'm going to  go through and, as well and, and also kind of the recurring themes.  For the strategic plan that, that we have, we're going to structure all of the presentations and updates going forward for the next  step in right, for the next five years, hopefully for for where we're where we're going, how we're going, and, and talk about those, those updates. And also to get back to some of the specific points the board brought up,  you know, to speak about what the schedule and some other things where we're going to have focus groups in the summer and things like that. So we'll be going to go through  the focus strategies again. If you go to the next slide. Mr. small, please. All right. So basically we have we have six major components for the strategic plan. And  all of them  are  focused around  student achievement.  Couldn't have put it better. And it was great hearing it right from  Prescott earlier about looking at what we're offering, how we're offering it, and making sure we're putting our kids at the at the best advantage.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, teaching and learning that saw and focusing on student achievement, what they're doing, how they're doing it and constantly improving that as we have always done. But to but

[11649-78] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of them are focused around student achievement. Couldn't have put it better. And it was great hearing it right from Prescott earlier about looking at what we're offering, how we're offering it, and making sure we're putting our kids at the at the best advantage.
TEXT> So,  teaching and learning that saw and focusing on student achievement, what they're doing, how they're doing it and constantly improving that as we have always done. But to but to keep that  high up on the mantle,  increasing  time on learning, student  time on learning. And that's going to take a few more  many forms. And I'll go through the bullets of those. And I couldn't agree more. Recruiting and retaining the best and the brightest staff possible.  I can't take our team can't take complete credit for that. They were doing that before we got here. But this year.  We've had a lot of success in a very challenging hiring year earlier than possible, kind of looking what we had for anticipated retirements needs and just frankly, getting on it before everyone. So,  in the principles of an amazing job with that, without reaching, we're going to continue that,  school safety.  Student emotional learning, student welfare, and basically the general return to normalcy, which we will  maybe visit as the board adjusted the, you know, and and do something with the mass tonight. And we'll talk about that as well for tomorrow with the latest on that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Looking at maximizing our opportunities for in district education, for special ed programs and building those as we have, so that it's equitable education in the community and cost effective

[11649-79] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: emotional learning, student welfare, and basically the general return to normalcy, which we will maybe visit as the board adjusted the, you know, and and do something with the mass tonight. And we'll talk about that as well for tomorrow with the latest on that.
TEXT> Looking at maximizing our opportunities for in district  education, for special ed programs and building those as we have,  so that  it's  equitable education in the community and cost effective and revamping the the governance structure of this of the  school in the school district. And basically that's designed to have more feedback loops with parents serving on school boards, on advisory councils, and so that we have more communication and feedback loops in a regular basis. All right. So  next one I'll just I'll bullet through these. I don't want to we have a  vicious  agenda. But I'll talk about these and then we'll return in the action items with the other follow up. So with where we're going to go to be more focused on it. But when we talk about the student achievement,  we're looking at the how many kids are in a class, what classes are offered. The linkage between the classes all the way k k, 12  transitions between those  blended learning opportunities for both students and staff, and actually measuring the student achievement and outcomes with our internal  measures that we have, and then also having other opportunities to do that so that we're looking at the individual student growth,  the kid themselves and how they progress, but also how cohorts are achieving compared to other cohorts in years.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Where are our graduates going? How are they becoming in in the area? How where are they going post education and the like? And also where we are for a

[11649-82] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: a block schedule two I want to give both sides, but particularly you can have math. You can have a year off from math and then a concrete sequential kind of building block layered. You know, subject like that. It can be tough. To go.
TEXT> Over a year to before your in geometry  from algebra one or algebra to whichever progression you're in. All right.  Quality and differentiation of different learning environments in the face to face.  Looking for more  internship opportunities.  We have some great ones. We have some really creative elbows that Prescott mentioned.  Other types of experiential learning.  Blended environments.  In the like,  we have already done a,  I think a fantastic job and a fantastic start that that's  a pretty groundbreaking with,  Donna kind of leading her team. We talked about how we might have professional development cause of that  throughout the year, every other year, having building competencies, but having a predictable nature of that for staff. That's obviously aligned with all the other threads in this as well.  I  just outstanding work that we want to highlight a little tonight.  Teacher  in ongoing PD with student outcomes. And also that we'll talk about,  and  here's here's your alphabet soup for tonight. Right. So you have the a are the American  the recovery  general acronym for the CARES money. Then you have cares. Then you have success or a second elementary and secondary ed recovery. So that that that's your your alphabet soup quiz.  But basically what that is and we were  and I didn't even look at it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We haven't had time to tell you the truth, but we but we have all in. Claremont has almost $10.6 million from the beginning of Covid to the end of

[11649-90] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Unidentified: 114.
TEXT> Yeah. 145.  So and a lot, a lot of work went into that and it's it's great. We, we we know historically that our numbers have decreased. Our student population has decreased.  We can we can take all of that on in more without any impact. Even unity can. So to.
NEXT> Unidentified: Staff it in my head and I better ask before I forget it. Sure. So what do you think it from? From Goshen. Who gets the state aid for. That

[11649-97] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We can serve both purposes, just generally by getting more students outside, you have more people outside. It's active. It's part of our curriculum anyway. And and we can also use some of our money to address some of the, the sorely needed updates around.
TEXT> So I'll show you another  perspective. These are outdoor  art and weaving centers and things like that that are in the slides.  This was just I thought it was a very well  put together presentation of where they wanted to go. And if you notice in there to teachers being teachers, what we always resourceful, always trying to get they already one of the slides says they want to cooperate with the tech center as well, and maybe have the kids help build some of the stuff to defray costs. So that that's just an example, and I thought it was a good one. There are plenty others that people are doing with our summer program, with camps, with theater  and things like that, but I wanted to highlight this one from Heather.  Next slide please. We also, I kind of,  lack of a better term, crashed a meeting with the elementary principals when they were meeting with the playground rep when, when and  active play  station rep to go over what,  we could have  athletically and in  in  play areas for gym classes, outside climbing towers and the like.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is what he sent us. He also we also told him to give us some renditions, particularly for the elementary and middle, as well as the high school, which

[11649-108] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Unidentified: and they don't have any kind of a process at that point to say, no, this isn't acceptable. So then you spend the money and then you send in the reimbursement request and they say, oh, I'm sorry, that didn't meet the the exact criteria.
TEXT> They have a person at Doe, Kate Murphy is her name there. And she's responsible for all of the Esser sort of coordinating the Esser questions. Okay. There are a number of FAQs that are put out on exactly this. We're thinking of doing this and then they share the information. So what's best for us is if we believe there's any ambiguity, any concern of reimbursement, take it to her first, get an approval on that. And we do the same on something of this kind of size, the standard stuff of equipment and,   you know, cleaning supplies and deaths that that's pretty well, that's a worn path.  As we head into any of the other areas, it I'll be certainly asking her before I say, okay, let's go ahead and actually do it right.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Yep.

[11649-123] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Richard Seaman: way you can educate a child on $3,600. And that's not just related to poverty. Demographics. Special education or anything else. There's no way you can have that kind of disparity. There's not a school district in New England that's anywhere near $4,000 per student.
TEXT> But that ongoing discussion, ongoing debate is the Claremont cases from before. It's the current case going on, and it's just trying to bring and to meet the needs. The constitutional needs of every child is guaranteed a free and, quote, adequate unquote education. How do you define that term adequacy. Challenging on its most clear day and just wicked when you really start to dig down through the calculations.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think Hanover spends 27,000 per student.

[11649-129] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: have an option of taking things that are in the strategic plan, whether it be sell core curriculum, work in their subject areas. Letters, skillful teacher or the like. But I will I could I can go through outdoor classroom, whatever whatever you want to.
TEXT> Jump in. So what we decided to do is it's something that it's new to most districts. Right. And and Joshua, we really like this idea, right?  We looked at our staff and talked to our staff about professional development, and we talked about, you know, how you go to one professional development at the beginning of the year and you get all this information in your head, and then you go to your classroom and the next professional day comes up and you go to this one, it's a different topic. And so now you've got all this other stuff that goes away, and you got all this new topic that goes into your head, right. And so what we decided to do is take a different approach. We've come up with tracks that align with our strategic plan, which aligns with our needs of our students in  our  building. So the staff, what they got to do is pick a track.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So if they pick whatever track they pick their on to the entire year. So what happens? I'll give you an example like this. The very first one, track one

[11649-146] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: with the money. So, it's it's really exciting and we're fired up, but we're, we're also, you know, it's a whole other like we will have no summer. So it it's okay, but we're, but we're just trying to try to keep the momentum going.
TEXT> So one of the things that was really exciting about our, about the summer program is that I, you know, I sit with other assistant superintendents and superintendents at meetings and we talk about our summer program, and they're they're saying, oh, we need, you know, no one teachers have just burnt out. We're not getting any teachers. Nobody's applying. And we're looking at ours. And we have an abundance amount of teachers that are applying. So our teachers are seeing it in there saying, this is going to be great. You know, this is going to be fun. And there's our teachers are all doing it. We don't have any problems with with,  having shortage of teachers for the summer program. So we're pretty excited about that. Our teachers are amazing. And, you know, they've been through a couple of years of, of,  some stressful time, but they're still willing to to do it during the summer to help our students.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's all I have in the full report. And just couch that with the guideline for when we get to the other other ones in the action.

[11649-238] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: that stuff, reports have to be true, complete and accurate, and the disbursements are being made for the purpose of their awarded for. So what happens in in title. And I think Frank, this kind of alludes to one of the questions that you asked.
TEXT> So I have to come up with a proposal. So if I want to purchase Chromebooks, I have to write up why I'm using them. What's the purpose of them? What are the children going to get from them? What are the benefits from them? What is the growth I'm going to see? What are the kids going to learn from them. And then I submit that and then it either gets approved or denied. Or they may say you need to change a few things. So if if I say I'm going to buy computers and it comes back approved, I can't all of a sudden say, oh no, I'm not going to buy computers. Instead, I'm just going to take that money and buy something else. So we have to make sure that we're following those rules. We consult with teachers, parents and others.  We, you know, we have curriculum meetings to talk about our curriculum and stuff such as that. So before we purchase any type of items, some of them are policies. So like we need to comply with the Gun Free School Act of 1994, comply with the Drug Free Workplace Act of 1988.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: We need to make sure we're keeping accurate records. We're keeping up with our policies and procedures that have to do with purchasing of items, which was a new policy

[11649-241] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: being used before it expires. So I can't when I was looking at doing my PD tracks, I could not say, well, I'm going to use this money for PD in October, so I need to make sure it's being used within that time frame.
TEXT> And that's one of the requirements they have. And then one of the most important ones that  and I and  I know you heard Richard say something a little bit about it, but in short equal access to education by assuring equal opportunity for all students. So we need to make sure that we're following those policies.  And so does anyone have any questions. And again, these are the guidelines, some of the guidelines that we have to report on as far as the state for federal funds.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so let's say. That, you show, you promised that there's going to be some growth. And you say our kids will improve reading levels an average of 1.5 grades,

[11649-242] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-06-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: for all students. So we need to make sure that we're following those policies. And so does anyone have any questions. And again, these are the guidelines, some of the guidelines that we have to report on as far as the state for federal funds.
TEXT> So so let's say. That,  you show,  you promised that there's going to be some growth. And you say our kids will improve reading levels an average of 1.5 grades, and it comes out with the only improve a half a grade. Did they notice that or does that? No.  Is it penalties.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: For that. There's no penalties that anything for that.

[11649-253] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the first half of the year, or it may start in the second half of the year. Then you're done with English and you go through eight of those, courses. Some of them are quarter classes meet different types of things. So what. We will.
TEXT> Be looking at and talking about, we've already started pulling some of the  equivalencies around seeing and looking at other models, what other people  have have done. But we're looking at ways in which we may be able to have some classes go the whole year  so that you're meeting with the same. The teacher has the same set of kids for in English. I'll use that example all the way throughout the year.  If you do that, and there's different models of these classes and we can look at that.  You, you have substantially more time, 30, 40% more time in that subject all the way through. And the concepts I just want to put out today that that we're looking at what is a core class in  what is in elective class, what lines up with the graduation requirements for the school? Are they what we should be offering for all of the kids? Should we look at those things? There's impacts all the way.  Through what we'll be looking at and talking about and getting feedback on. But we hope to have proposals which we would have to have in a timely manner just  from our last board meeting. In order to do this, we want to have a draft proposal.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We want to model a few. We want to be ready to do this going into budget season, which begins almost immediately, October, November. And then we're in the throes

[11649-282] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Prescott Herzog: did that first semester and was done. Because right now you take like 32 credits. And you need 27 for the diploma. And so essentially, senior year was a wash and still took classes and everything, but the graduation requirements were completed very early on.
TEXT> And, and it is that way. And, you know,  where I'll most your in a outstanding student and you're in in  we have many more students like that's more the norm than it is the exception. So when you look at this and we can we'll show numbers. We'll look at all the other types, types of things. Not the norm to have like 32 racked up for your senior year. Like let me qualify that. That's not normal okay. That's amazing. And and these amazing but but the but in terms of what kids can access and how they access. We have some other  we had a great meeting with the  community college and  in talking about how many of our students and we're trying to pull this,  I'm working with Ray Curran and the guidance department. And we looked we have and we have for years. And this is  what we want to, you know,  focus on for years we've had students like in Prescott's one of them. Right. So we have students who are graduate. He's graduating from Stevens, but he also has college credits in the bank from the arrangements at the community college.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: As to a lot of our other students. And those are the types of things that we want to accentuate. Okay, where particularly if you're going if you're going to

[11649-283] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: want to, you know, focus on for years we've had students like in Prescott's one of them. Right. So we have students who are graduate. He's graduating from Stevens, but he also has college credits in the bank from the arrangements at the community college.
TEXT> As to a lot of our other students. And those are the types of things that we want to accentuate. Okay, where particularly if you're going if you're going to Keene, if you're going to a for teaching degree, all these other types of types of  degrees out there, you're starting a semester ahead. It's it's literally  money in the bank for some of these programs. And, and  and I think we do a good job with this. We have the kids there. But I think we want to get the message out more of of all the amazing things that we've been doing. And,  Dan Decker. Right.  All these teachers have been doing this for years and years, and that's, that's the story wants out a little bit more and we want to just go go on that. And any type of schedule that we have will still allow for that, maybe even amplify it. So that's and still get to the core. We have a lot of work to do on it, but we're excited about pursuing it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Good. So the.

[11649-295] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Unidentified: Linking them.
TEXT> So they already are linked. So our teachers, our teachers, as long as the the course is aligned and they have a masters degree and they meet the competencies and meet with Jerry Powell, they already do. So those. So  it's a pretty good deal for the college as well because they're looking at the profile,  opening up  things. And our, our students take those in the same schedule that we have. They are also open to looking and trying to maximize times in their schedules. What they and just having a, you know, broadening our  kind of long standing  relationship that way and looking to do things like that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So those courses are available online. You start did you know?

[11649-313] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: lot going on. When we're talking about going back to almost being normal again. So I know that there's so many facets, and I was just basically looking at if this is real, let's try it. If it's not real, thus we can slow down.
TEXT> Yeah. Yeah. So and it could be the case that the two things aren't like I said, they're not contingent upon each other. There might be something we need more time with. There might be something that we can do, but no matter what, and I and I do think and I, I like it, I like it  the, the ambition of, of the  of the board. And for us to get this out there I we started it we we I started it when, when we got the job looking at it. So it is it is a hard thing to do culturally and otherwise. I don't know if you know.  I mean, there was this they went to the Supreme Court over the schedule in the high school,  and they were at loggerheads within the previously. We're not there. We had a bunch of people, you know, talking about this. We talked about the union of this,  about this and and what we were looking at is kind of the equity of all teaching assignments. And  as you've heard, the boards charge in every meeting  and particularly a member of about operating more like a business in making efficiencies when we can, but all for the outcomes of the kids. That's where we are. Right now. So we have we covered.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm not sure if we've covered a or not. Second elementary school realignment, have we?

[11649-322] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: out what they are and then let's kick it off to a policy committee. So I want to get some clarity on whatever what my my colleagues on the board, when we talk about pay per, per play, what are we talking about Steve okay.
TEXT> So in my mind, what I've stood it to be,  is in order. If you're playing a sport, you're paying some sort of fee to play it. And tonight was a perfect example. Bowling. They have to buy their own balls. They have to buy their own shoes. Kids have to buy their own cleats to play baseball, sneakers to play basketball. The the people that I think are really kind of losing out is it's not even the reason we have to call it pay to play sports is because there's a fair amount of funding that's going into the baseball team and the football team, high school level, even at the middle school level. As far as jerseys, where it's unfair is that the kids that are in the other arts, music, theater, they don't have a huge expense, but we're not buying all their costumes and props. They're usually donated or  somebody made them. And I think we're.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm not sure. Do we buy their instruments? I don't think so.

[11649-331] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-06-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Are you suggesting then what I hear you saying is that we should be paying for everything?
TEXT> That's exactly what I'm not saying, okay? If you're in that sport, the family should be responsible for some of it. And interestingly enough, when I was in Southern California, that's how it was. If you played baseball, you had to pay X amount, and if you returned your jersey torn and stuff like that, you had to pay a fee for reconditioning or replacement. That was how it was. You have to buy your own gear, your own pads, your own this, your own that. I'm not saying we can necessarily have to go to that extreme, because that is it's a pretty big burden on a family. But then again, they're usually going to be able to wear it for a couple seasons, usually at least the pads and most of the newer football stuff, it's removable and drop in. But I think I my under this is just my interpretation of what I understand it to be. So I could be wrong. But when you're spending a hefty chunk of change for football, baseball, basketball because you're paying for facilities, maintenance, so on and so forth, and then you have limited costs for the kids that are using the auditorium, because that's about it. You don't need a referee there that you're paying.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Again.

[11649-336] Unidentified | Unidentified board member - out-of-district athletes, remote learning  | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Has.
TEXT> Kind of more. It started off as the conversation of. People outside of this community paying to play sports here at our middle school. And it's kind of gone from that conversation, which still needs to happen,  to the conversation of all students paying to play sports. So it's it's kind of two separate things that have kind of started. It did start off at one of the meetings about the their kids from out of district that are playing sports here,  that are getting the benefits of the taxpayer money or the money that we pay in taxes that aren't paying, they're paying their way. So it's.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: So it's two.

[11649-344] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: The.
TEXT> The genesis of it I, I think they both were the topics though. So the genesis of the out of town kids  this year and it also happened during Covid and one was from out of state during Covid and that so the the students that we knew about this year, we did address it. We did charge them. We just divided by the the rates so that they they actually did pay to play okay for this year. I don't want the people at home to think that we didn't when we caught that, but it brought up the larger issue, right? We didn't want to take that opportunity. It had been going on in some cases for years and things like that. And it's,  it's what we call it in the office. Another thing, like a historical, a historical. We got to go back to that one. So we we have to have a policy on it. The, the, the, I think the foundational parts of it that were toughest for folks were,  if our kids, in addition to paying for that, historically, it was used kind of with the expectation that that kid may go to Stevens and we're trying to draw kids in intuition kids from sending communities with a big perspective.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It also, you know, this happens in every state in community. I don't think it was an abuse where we were getting really star athletes or things like that, or

[11649-345] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: toughest for folks were, if our kids, in addition to paying for that, historically, it was used kind of with the expectation that that kid may go to Stevens and we're trying to draw kids in intuition kids from sending communities with a big perspective.
TEXT> It also,  you know, this happens in every  state in community. I don't think it was an abuse where we were getting really star athletes or things like that, or there was some gamesmanship to be a powerhouse or things like that.  But I do think,  the tougher part is when even if that kid is playing for another community and they come in and they take the spot of a kid if there's A, A, B, or even sea level, then and they bump one of our kids when that's really something that is,  or that position can be viewed to be kind of the property of the town. Right? It's a rite of passage to go in there and how you do that, and that's, that's where it got a little sticky.  And, and I don't, I don't necessarily know that there would direct impacts for this year or other years, but I think that's something that the committee agreed that we should look into that get get kind of the facts and just come up with general guidance on that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I do want to say on the other issue, though, Steve, and that this is something that we've already put out to the principals about the the cares money. So

[11720-79] Donna Magoon |  | 2021-07-01
PREV> Mary Woodman: That we.
TEXT> Hear complaining that they don't have enough staff. And if you have staff, can you send them. Our way? We actually have our staff, and we have probably about 4 or 5 staffs from other districts that are coming to us for our summer programs because they're that excited about it and seeing good things happening with us. So it's pretty exciting that our staff is, you know, even though everything that they've been through this last year and a half, it seems like five years, they're still willing to come in and and do what needs to be done for our kids. So it's really exciting to see them. And they're just as energized as if it was their very first day teaching. So we've been pretty excited about that. We're really lucky.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah it's been great. So so yeah that's that's all I had just for a highlight reel. And then we have the other other things. Yes.

[11720-85] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; SAU 6 Board member | 2021-07-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yes. Oh yeah.
TEXT> So we're bussing for the students. They're getting all day program. They're getting a meal. The person.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: They're getting breakfast, lunch and two snacks.

[11720-95] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Rocco Ruggeri: Pretty soon those those gaps will be closed and it'll just be school 12 months a year.
TEXT> Well to you know I'm not saying. All right. So for the students at home who just have getting getting into the regiment, we're not. But  I do think particularly with  to not to not waste  a crisis. Right. So the things in terms of individualized instruction supports  with with computers, other types of things, it's great for kids to get outside, get rid of screens, to trust me, that's a very, very major  part of this. But it is great to think of how we can support, in a variety of ways and complement  what's going on in the classroom throughout the year. Even before, well, we were talking about we have we have more summer reading kind of components and things that we're putting out. We're going to go back to  the,  the, the fair, back to school fair, some other types of things. And then the other item that I didn't put on here  specifically, but wanted to say, as we know, and we have to do that individually.  Through the different boards. But we are prepared. Both boards have said  over and over, and it's certainly,  the intention of the administrative team to open 100% as, as, as regular instruction as we can.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Like, meaning that's that's it. And then we're going to see, exactly what turns, you know, Covid might take or whatever. But that's certainly our intent. Always was our intent.

[11720-155] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yep. Okay. This is.
TEXT> This is a challenge with what are called choice towns, where the kids are allowed to go wherever they want to is there's no necessarily incentive for them to tell us beforehand. And, you know, I would say surely there are going to be towns, whether it be Newport, US, unity, sunup, they will have kids show up on day one or be told about it 2 or 3 days before that they didn't know about. And there will be some scampering to be able to address that. So the superintendent and the business office and all the way through were reaching out constantly trying to find that answer. And of course the earlier the better for us.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Is there any impact on special ed?

[11720-159] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: 20 like we always thought. We don't know where they are. I think you're going to see more movement in the early grades where, you know, I, I, I would fully expect someone to finish out at a middle school where they're already socially connected.
TEXT> I think most of it will be elementary.  We the I think the two new ones we have so far are at Claremont.  And what we heard anecdotally when we were at the fair, which  was a while ago, was that one of that one of those was sports related, okay. Where a kid is already in the youth sports with the with the Claremont kids is coming this way. So,  we'll know more about it. And I can if I could just send out an informational emails and update, particularly  over the next few weeks, to see where that is.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Okay. Any other questions on community form? Okay. Pretty much. Our last agenda item is Superintendent Evaluation subcommittee. I know Heather's looking at me. Heather and I are both on

[11720-182] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Well, soccer, field hockey, we all have other lives we can debate. In.
TEXT> In the in the timing, too, is we? Definitely. I'll put goals together same way. It's the same. They'll be aligned to the strategic plan. It's the same thing that I'm going to do with the administrative team where we're we actually have something to align the goals  with as well. So it's all it's a very common format. However, however you do, Lars, we met with at the retreat. We talked about setting up those goals, having it aligned. We're going to do that as well on our side, so that everything is focused on student achievement in both places, everything that's in the strategic plan that there's anything other decided for, for mine, that's fine. But that's that's where all the principles are, you know, just okay.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: And that's certainly feeds into. It's your your evaluation.

[11776-12] Michael | Public commenter, parent seeking tackle football for Wethersfield VT m | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Microphone right here.
TEXT> Thank you. My name is Michael. Some of you know me some of you don't. Longtime Claremont guy. I am here on behalf of a small group of 12 year old boys from Wethersfield, Vermont, who need a place to play tackle football. If you're not aware, there is. I know there's been discussion about out of town kids playing for Claremont. But it's it's super important that a decision be made on this. So these kids have come up through the mini Cardinals program. But in the state of Vermont, in seventh and eighth grade, you're not allowed to play tackle football. It's not offered. There's there's a rule against it. They play flag football. It's completely different. It's a different game. I think it's dangerous that they're playing flag football instead of tackle football. But I can talk for an hour on that. These kids are good kids. We're asking that they qualify academically. We're asking that they qualify behaviorally just to the same standards as the Claremont Colleges do. Logistically, it's just over the river. You're going to be playing against towns that probably have Vermont kids on their team. I'm sure the Hartford kids are going to be going to Lebanon and Hanover and asking if they can play there.
NEXT> Michael: Claremont has an opportunity to be a hero to a few kids, and we're asking you to do that, and we're willing to pay. We're willing to pay our way.

[11776-13] Michael | Public commenter, parent seeking tackle football for Wethersfield VT m | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael: Claremont Colleges do. Logistically, it's just over the river. You're going to be playing against towns that probably have Vermont kids on their team. I'm sure the Hartford kids are going to be going to Lebanon and Hanover and asking if they can play there.
TEXT> Claremont has an opportunity to be a hero to a few kids, and we're asking you to do that, and we're willing to pay. We're willing to pay our way. Claremont citizens have a big enough tax obligation. We. If my son's good enough to make the team, I'll pay. I'll pay to cover his costs.  If there's a kid who can't pay, we'll find the money. We're ready to go to work. We just are asking for a path and a direction to be able to do that. So please, talk about it. Discuss it, vote on it. Give us some direction here. These kids over the last year and a half have suffered more than most. They've just been sitting behind screens. If you're a parent, you know how hard it is to get your kid to be passionate about anything. And these kids are passionate about the game of football. Let's allow them to play. Let's have them play for Claremont. It's close. It makes sense. They already know the other kids. They already know the other coaches. Please. Thank you. If you guys. A month from now, if you guys meet again, it's probably too late. Football season is now. They're already conditioning at the high school and the middle school level two days a week.
NEXT> Michael: A couple of weeks from now, they're going to start putting in the playbook. It's it's a long term commitment. So it's it's got to be soon. And that's why

[11776-18] Michael | Public commenter, parent seeking tackle football for Wethersfield VT m | 2021-07-21
PREV> Steven Horsky: Meant before. I think with the time frame that we're dealing with, it is fact that they are conditioning for football. How many children are we looking at.
TEXT> Right now? It's for all of them. Played for the Cardinals last year there. Devoted dedicated kids to to tackle football. Their kids that are going to play it all the way up through high school.  In high school, obviously it won't be an issue in high school. They can go to Windsor or they can go to Springfield and play. But at the middle school level, it's just not an option. And for me, they're missing out on two years of development and growth. And and Claremont's got great coaches and it's so close logistically we can make it work. We can. We're all going to work together to get our kids to the practices and to the bus, you know, for the games. And again, they're going to have to hold. They're going to have to live up to their end of the bargain, too, in regards to attitude and school work. They're going to be held accountable for those things. We want that to be the case. I've been holding this over my kid for years now, and he's doing all the right things and he still can't play. And I you know, as a parent, I want to fight and I want to I want to give him that opportunity, and I and I need you guys to do that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Have you talked to Doug?

[11776-21] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael: We have. And it's just we've talked to everybody. I'm a Claremont guy I.
TEXT> Sean as well. So we're just holding the line. The other precedent that they look at is is there a comparable program. This one is a little bit thorny because as you're as you're saying and as  you know, from back in the day, a flag isn't the same as tackle. But but there is an option. So that was the other thing. If there wasn't any comparable, we had some other sports where  the exception was made when they didn't have a youth program of any kind. Those were easier decisions. That's why this one's got is a little layered. So and I haven't talked specifically to either a D about impacts and pushing. You know, if, if our kids would lose out and I haven't, I haven't gone that far.
NEXT> Michael: Can I bring up the fact that that our the hockey program in, in Stevens combines with a couple of other PSUs to feel the team. I don't see this

[11776-24] Michael | Public commenter, parent seeking tackle football for Wethersfield VT m | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Think that. Okay. Tell you.
TEXT> There I have gotten mixed reactions from everybody from. Yes. It's it's it's okay. We're going to allow it to happen. Prepare your kid to play football to you know, he's been going to conditioning for the last couple of weeks. And then Sean kind of let him know that look, it doesn't look like you're going to be able to play. And it crushed him and it crushed all these kids. And and I,  I understand the the comparable program of flag. It's not it's not. And you're talking to the guy who ran the flag men's flag football league. I've been playing for 22 years. Flag football. I've run the league up, up behind the college. I've done it for years. It's not the same game.  And again, as somebody who's got a huge athletic background, I don't want my kid to miss out on these moments. I'm 40 years old, and I remember everything about seventh and eighth grade football. I remember everything about high school football. My kid. I want my kid to know that. I want him to challenge himself.
NEXT> Michael: And you guys have that opportunity to let him do that. I can't just buy a house in Claremont or I'll tell you would, you know, I just can't. But

[11776-29] Michael | Public commenter, parent seeking tackle football for Wethersfield VT m | 2021-07-21
PREV> Nicholas Stone: why we're making that difference. So it shows right there. That is it is a different program as a whole. You know where that's why we keep kind of saying, you know it's a parable maybe. But we're still raging it in that way too.
TEXT> I think it's a safety issue for when they go back to play tackle again. And I'm, I'm fighting my fight in Vermont. We're doing that, but we're just getting started.  And there's a big push to, to get it back. But for right now, it's not going to happen for this year. And it might not happen for next year, but it's a fight that we're going to continue to fight. But because this program is so close, it just makes sense, guys. It really, really does. These kids deserve the opportunity to play. They're doing all the right things.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so procedurally, I wish that we were being approached with hearing from.

[11776-45] Michael | Public commenter, parent seeking tackle football for Wethersfield VT m | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We could allow them to continue the condition with the exception that the final approval will, will be then it'll give us a chance to vet it, get some pros and cons in front of you and and take action.
TEXT> That's my mission today is to just. We really need to open the discussion up as soon as we can. And I understand that there's protocol and procedures that need to be followed in doing so. So if they're allowed to at least continue to condition with the understanding that this will be brought up potentially as early as the next meeting to be voted on a couple of weeks. I think that that is a really fair, thing that I just, you know, I want these kids to know that.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That's where I was going. I, I, I think we let them continue to condition and practice and learn the playbook. And then at our next meeting, put it on

[11776-67] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: cleaning, because it is it's also a lot of the stuff that is was on the other side of the building where the summer program is, is stacked in there. Next slide. This is the calf and you can see all the, it was amazing.
TEXT> I was in there a couple of times  over  the weekend. What was very interesting was  in the feedback that we're getting and what I. But I've seen with my own eyes, with the, with the faculty and with the says the kids literally don't want to go home. So they  they were in there, there, fired up there socializing. It's exactly what the intent of the program was  to get them. But I got to be honest  in the normal or whatever, but I don't know that it was ever normal to be digging into math problems in July. I don't, but they they were and they are, and it's consistent and it's absolutely wonderful.  Just as the principals kind of pushed in the in the planning team pushed to have the themes. And we're so lucky we got on that early. We have about 200 kids participating. It's wonderful.  Next slide please. Okay.  This is I don't want to steal the thunder, but I they're going to do a presentation to beat the band I wanted to send. I was sending the board packet out in a  couple of hours, so I wanted to put something in there, but they'll go into that in more depth.  The the other piece that I had for if you skipped down,  I have the slide in there to just highlight  two, two more slides, please.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Mr. small, that's our Covid information right now. And things are really good in the region. I don't want to. We have it as an agenda item. I wanted to

[11776-75] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (departing for another district) | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Thank you. Donna wanted to say a few words.
TEXT> Yes. Thank you very much for that. I just wanted to talk a little bit about. Me leaving, and I just had something that I just wanted to share with everyone. There have been a lot of things. That have been hard. For me to do. However. This is the hardest. Sorry. My heart is saddened. It's sad because I'm leaving behind my family. My family that has been very supportive for me for the last three years. When I first started in this position, I did not know how important the students, families, staff in this community would be to me. I've had the opportunity to work with so many amazing and dedicated people. To the families. You have trusted me and felt comfortable reaching out to me with questions or concerns. And I thank you very much for your trust. Everyone has shown me time and time again that nothing can stop us when we come together. Staff. The last year and a half has taken a toll on many people, but you have all stood strong and made sure our students were number one priority. I admire all of you. You've been my strength, my inspiration, and I thank you all very much for that. This path may be leading me in a different direction for now, but I hope it brings me back here to Claremont, back home to my family again. Thank you all very much for all your support.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay, transitioning to our action items curriculum discussion. Elementary fish tank pilot. So just a quick background on this. That and other. Correct me if I'm incorrect. Some things came

[11776-93] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Brendan: I just did a great homemaker. Yes. Okay, fine. Okay. Thank you. Will be interesting. Yeah. We introduced so.
TEXT> I'm so excited to be talking to you today about fishing. Okay, so let's just give a little background about where this came from. This has been a project that actually we're entering our second year in. And it was a team of teachers and administrators. And this is really grounded in reading achievement. So we are looking at this project through the lens of reading achievement. So I've been a teacher in the district for six years. I've been a classroom teacher for six years, entering my seventh. And when I started to notice is year after year, I would look at most students end of your benchmark reading scores, and I just wasn't seeing the growth that I thought I should see. Okay. And it didn't make sense to me because we have students who are working hard. We have a big chunk of instructional time for literacy. We have teachers working hard, so it really made me wonder what's going on. Now. Some students are moving. Absolutely. But for some of our students, the dial is just not moving enough. And we wanted to find out why. What's happening?  And that's not just happening in my classroom in the packet that we prepare for you, if you look at page 33, 34 and 35, we pulled state assessment data from staff. And you can see at the district level year after year, we're not seeing a lot of reading growth.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: And I pulled elementary schools I couldn't pull we couldn't pull Maple School because they combined Claremont with gusto. So that's why we did this Maple Street.

[11776-97] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: And we did prioritize peer reviewed articles. So we pull from scholarly journals. But we did want to write a perspective. So you will also see like news articles and interviews. And what we're really looking for is what are the best instructional reading practices.
TEXT> What are the research based practices, what are the evidence based practices? And also, are there other schools who were able to turn the dial and what are they doing?  Also, these two books and this is in in your packet as well. These two books were really informative for this part of the project. The  the research. And the. Research part. So the Knowledge Gap by Nancy Wexler and Building Background Knowledge by Robert Morris.  And I know people educators are  definitely recognize Robert Marzano. And he's a very highly regarded researcher. Okay. So through all of that process, the questioning, the research, we found that there is something different that we could be doing to improve reading achievement. And that's okay. Concerning comes in. Okay. So what is fishing for me? It is a knowledge based reading program. So this means that students still learn reading skills and like Common Core standards within books. So our students are still learning how to find text evidence. They're still learning how to compare and contrast. They're still learning how to  understand text features and informational text. But here's where it's really important.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: This is the key difference that students are learning this within a topic of science or social studies. So for example this is one unit where they are learning about

[11776-101] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: it's a is addressing. Because as readers, we need vocabulary and we need context or knowledge of the topic to be able to understand the language. And this is really important. People, adults and kids, we need to read with about 95 to 98% accuracy.
TEXT> That's really high, right? So we need to know a lot of the words on the page to be able to comprehend. Okay. Now this I love this example. This is really interesting. This is pulled from an actual state standardized test. This is a third grade reading passage. But like most reading passages, it is based on science and social studies. It's based on Canadian Arctic in the UK. So if you look at this passage, think about if a child does not have science and social studies knowledge and vocabulary, think about the words that they're not going to be able to comprehend. And that's what you see here. Remote Canadian Arctic survived,  even caribou herds adapted. So you can see how difficult that language comprehension piece is going to be. If a child does not have the content, knowledge and vocabulary to access those words. So what students. Already know about the content is one of the strongest indicators to how they will learn new information  relevant to the content. And this really matters for our students. Research.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: Finds that overall, students living in poverty are already behind their peers before they even enter kindergarten. Researchers found about a 30 million word gap at kindergarten between children who

[11776-102] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: does not have the content, knowledge and vocabulary to access those words. So what students. Already know about the content is one of the strongest indicators to how they will learn new information relevant to the content. And this really matters for our students. Research.
TEXT> Finds that overall,  students living in poverty are already behind their peers before they even enter kindergarten.  Researchers found about a 30 million word gap at kindergarten between children who are  in poverty and children who are not living in poverty. And Marzano did a really interesting study that found that students living in poverty overall  performed lower academically. And he found that if he gave the same test to two different groups of children, children,  that are living in poverty and children that are not only about 15%, 15% of those students would pass that test  versus children who are not living in poverty. About 50% of them would be able to pass that test.  And there are many, many factors that go into creating that,  knowledge gap and gaps in vocabulary and background knowledge, lack of resources and experiences also make a huge difference. Okay, so we know. That kids may enter in if they're living in poverty. They may enter in with gaps can garden right away. So what happens if the gap doesn't close? So any case, foundation for the Polish report called double jeopardy. And this is a really serious report. So they found a direct correlation between a child's reading level in third grade and their likelihood to graduate high school.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: On time. So a child who is not reading on grade level in third grade is less likely to graduate high school on time. Okay. Now there's also a direct

[11776-103] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: happens if the gap doesn't close? So any case, foundation for the Polish report called double jeopardy. And this is a really serious report. So they found a direct correlation between a child's reading level in third grade and their likelihood to graduate high school.
TEXT> On time. So a child who is not reading on grade level in third grade is less likely to graduate high school on time. Okay. Now  there's also a direct correlation between students who live in poverty, students who live in poverty. There is also a direct correlation for the likelihood to not graduate on time. So this is where this report double jeopardy. This is the name name comes from. Because if you have a student who's living in poverty and they're experiencing low reading achievement, they are at risk of a double jeopardy for not graduating high school on time. That's pretty serious.  So that's why we we really started to look heavily at a knowledge based reading program, because it is critical for students to have the decoding skills that one bubble and the language comprehension skills to be able to read. And this is why we looked at a knowledge based reading program to build that language comprehension. So the next thing. That  we talked about was our. Criteria for. Selecting a knowledge based program. So based on our research and what we know about children and how they learn,  we decided that there were three main things that we were looking for when selecting a program to use.  The first was how is the program designed?  Meaning how  did they go about deciding what the children were going to learn in each grade level?
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: And then number two was how strong is the vertical alignment? So meaning, the correlation between the grades and how it builds over time. And three, what if the quality,

[11776-108] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: and it is rating three gateway three usability. It does not meet expectations, however. Fish Tank has since updated like their online interface. And so we we use the updated version and we found it very simple and easy to you serious for funding right.
TEXT> All  right. So how do we talk about what actually happened in our pilot. Because we did pilot this. And this is our own experience in student achievement. So this is a kind of a snapshot of the reading data in my classroom at the beginning of the year. So I teach second grade this year I had 40% of my classroom come in reading at a kindergarten level. And that is also what I found in my small group instruction assessment. 40% of children coming into second grade reading at a kindergarten level. Right. I had which which also  about 30 to 35% is what's typical. So a little bit higher, but not a whole lot. Okay, 100% of my students scoring at kindergarten or grade one level in informational text. So if you look at the bottom bar, this is informational text. The yellow means grade one and the red means okay. And up here in the green means for you two. So Fish Tank is really addressing these three informational text comprehension literature text comprehension or vocabulary comprehension okay. All right. So 40% reading at kindergarten level at the end of the year I saw so much growth in our classroom, saw so much growth in the backdrop of a Covid year.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: It's really exceptional. At the end of the year, we had 19% of students scoring at a kindergarten reading level, and those were, a few students who also receive intensive

[11776-109] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: these three informational text comprehension literature text comprehension or vocabulary comprehension okay. All right. So 40% reading at kindergarten level at the end of the year I saw so much growth in our classroom, saw so much growth in the backdrop of a Covid year.
TEXT> It's really exceptional. At the end of the year, we had 19% of students scoring at a kindergarten reading level, and those were,  a few students who also receive intensive instruction in the area of reading and speech and language. So their their needs are being met as well. I had students reading at grade five, grade three, and grade two informational text level. I actually had to pull down my books from when I taught upper levels, because I had students reading high.  And about 40% of my students overall were reading grade two informational level. And  if you want to see a more detailed report on page eight, you can see,  a more detailed report. So the top is the snapshot up here. And then you can see each student I blocked out their names. But if you read it this way and info is the column all over to the right, you can see grade five at the top, grade three, late two and two. Okay. So this was this was a lot of growth. This was not what I typically see in a year and in a Covid year or top of it. It was a lot of growth.
NEXT> Unidentified: This is also including something that were out remote. One of them said.

[11776-113] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: the knowledge and the vocabulary. This is a student who has intensive reading and writing needs, who's still able to access the vocabulary and the content. And as we said before, this is an English as a second language learner who was in our classroom.
TEXT> Okay, so talking about all the great things  about fishtank learning, we also wanted to give you a little bit of background on some of the reasons why, we think that the current program that we have,  is maybe not working for our students as well.  So again, we went to some  scholarly journals, looked for peer reviewed articles,  as well,  because that's very important when you're researching,  to see what do they have to say about wonders now that it's been out for quite a bit of time? So Edgar Port said, in Gateway to Building Knowledge, it only partially meets the expectations.  Education Week said science and social studies content is covered every week, but the curriculum itself is not organized around these topics, nor designed to systematically build students knowledge about them. So we did bring one of the basal readers to show you what we mean by that. This is the current program. So this is what kids read most of the time called the Reading Writing Workshop. It's a textbook. And then here are some level readers. So this is what this is what they're talking about when they're saying that curriculum itself is not organized around topics. So for example, unit three first topic is the Earth's forces where students read about magnets and then they reach true.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: They look at the sky, they're reading a fiction story about starry nights, and then they are reading the next story about, solar panels. And then the next week is

[11776-114] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: some level readers. So this is what this is what they're talking about when they're saying that curriculum itself is not organized around topics. So for example, unit three first topic is the Earth's forces where students read about magnets and then they reach true.
TEXT> They look at the sky, they're reading a fiction story about starry nights, and then they are reading the next story about, solar panels. And then the next week is about tornadoes. And then the last week is about expressing yourself. They've got the beat. So they organize this random question, which is, what have you learned about the world that surprises you are a theme. They're not organizing it around those units of study. And the texts themselves are not those vocabulary rich texts that you're seeing in front of you as well. Most of them are about 4 to 5 pages. And the first one is called Little Flap Learns to Fly, and it's about a bird, as you can probably guess. So it doesn't have that relate ability for students. It's not about another child that's learning to do something new. It's about a bird. It makes it a little less interesting to them because they can't relate. They also said if a content rich electric curriculum is a priority, then maybe a school might want to compare wonders against some of the programs that are specifically designed to meet this goal, like fish tank learning and content rich means science and social studies. Rich content typically speaks to science and social studies and student achievement partners said wonders does not consistently display the features of content rich Ela instruction.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: The curriculum only partially builds content knowledge systematically, and consequently, discussion and writing in response to texts is not consistently focused on building content. Knowledge and relationships among words are

[11776-115] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: are specifically designed to meet this goal, like fish tank learning and content rich means science and social studies. Rich content typically speaks to science and social studies and student achievement partners said wonders does not consistently display the features of content rich Ela instruction.
TEXT> The curriculum only partially builds content knowledge systematically, and consequently, discussion and writing in response to texts is not consistently focused on building content. Knowledge and relationships among words are not emphasized. So, for instance,  they have seven vocabulary words that are randomly selected from the text each week, and there's no greater connection. They don't ever see those words again. And as soon as he says, is a really interesting organization to review a program because they are reviewing based on the criteria, what what is evidence based? So are the instructional methods in this program. Do they align with evidence based practices. And so I think that is really important to know that Student Achievement Partners is saying that it is not building content knowledge systematically. Okay. So we have some yeah, this is just a fun part. We had some  feedback for you from  ourselves and from students. The first thing about it is students are excited about it. They love seeing what book we're going to read next. Lots of times on Fridays, we'll give them little hints on Monday as to what book they're going to get to read next week.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: And we have experienced no behavior or avoidance of task issues with this reading program, which is something that we normally do see. We we say, all right, everyone, it's

[11776-116] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: The first thing about it is students are excited about it. They love seeing what book we're going to read next. Lots of times on Fridays, we'll give them little hints on Monday as to what book they're going to get to read next week.
TEXT> And we have experienced no behavior or avoidance  of task issues with this reading program, which is something that we normally do see. We we say, all right, everyone, it's time to pull out our, our we call it in my class, our swordfish book because it has a purpose on it. It's time for  our swordfish book. We're going to read our story for the week, and we'll have children crawling under tables, hiding. No bathroom. I have to see the notes. Whereas this with these texts, they are excited to get to read them. And I think it's also right. You have to remember that we're getting a percentage of children who are coming and reading grade levels behind. So reading genuinely is challenging. They're working really, really hard. So for us to not see that behavior or avoidance of task, it was the opposite. Kids were so excited to come in Monday and to get their books. And we also noticed that it significantly strengthened our students writing ability.  Because of those daily tasks, every, every day they are writing about the same subject, different questions, and they're very open ended questions. There's not necessarily  for most questions. There's not necessarily a right or wrong answer. It's can they look at the book? Can they pull information from there and and tell us what they know.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: And they, they use the text. So they're constantly looking back at that story, flipping through it again, to gain more knowledge. So they're very interested, as you can see.

[11776-117] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: the same subject, different questions, and they're very open ended questions. There's not necessarily for most questions. There's not necessarily a right or wrong answer. It's can they look at the book? Can they pull information from there and and tell us what they know.
TEXT> And  they, they use the text.  So they're constantly looking back at that story, flipping through it again, to gain more knowledge. So they're very interested, as you can see. You know, we have habitats,  is our first topic in second grade that we study. They're super interested in it. The next one is about insects. So they're all things that kids are very interested in. And, and they wonder about,  and  they can easily relate to. So they're, they're very motivated to write about it and tell what they know. Yeah. So we would have kids wanting to bring the,  the books everywhere we go to Moody Park once a week for outdoor learning. They would go in those outdoor learning bags, stay would grab them for read to self  socially distant partner reading during free time. I had so many students say, can I keep this book and bring them home? So what a big difference in terms of what we notice with our students and their love of reading. And that is it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[11776-145] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Steven Horsky: that were excluded. And I think they're all, you know, you can only have so much, but there's it seems that it was tailored very intentionally, one direction. And it was kind of leaving some other stuff out. But doing something here. I'm just curious.
TEXT> Can I ask follow up question? And I think it follows up to it. Steve, can you just briefly tell us why do the kids find this so engaging? The selections.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Emotional.

[11776-170] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Brendan: And he could be a leader, like tell. And inform.
TEXT> His right and he right. And he was he was able to say, yeah, this is what happened.  And so they they find it interesting because it's the science topics, very high interest and the stories,  with children in them, you know, the ones that aren't science texts, obviously, they are about kids that they can relate to.  They can relate to children. They can understand,  the emotions and the feelings and, the events that are happening to children. There was something else, too, that I noticed that we talked about in our PLC and with Kathleen and reflecting upon this program, it's really difficult to facilitate an in-depth conversation, meaningful conversation about little fireflies, babies. Whereas when we talked about Jessie, Jessie's saved for three years she worked as a centrist, and she saved money so her grandmother could join her across the sea. Because Jesse loved living in America and she wanted her grandmother to join her. That facilitates conversation, too. So I think that maybe that's getting to your question is.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's emotional.

[11776-178] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Did you have a question?
TEXT> Not a question. It was just speaking with my educator hat on. Having been in a second grade classroom this entire past school year. Those books are terrible. The kids look at.
NEXT> Brendan: Oh, these ones.

[11776-181] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member | 2021-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. No, no no, no.
TEXT> I mean, they pull the same thing out every time. They're like, oh, if they hated one story. Oh yeah. Yeah. So yeah, second grade, first grade. There's like three different ones that we use. They all have the same cover with a different number on the front. And the kids don't like them. They're like, oh, Jack has a cat. The cat ran away. Oh, where did the cat. You can't talk about.
NEXT> Brendan: Not engaging.

[11776-190] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: Are you muted.
TEXT> I'm not muted  for once I'm not muted. So just to advocate on behalf of you know yeah you know full public disclosure and stuff. What I found challenging for me was I hundred percent agree. And I'll say it again just so it's clear to everybody, nobody objects to the content. It's the it's the and I understand that kids are really, really engaged because it's really intense. And I don't think you can go through this and look at this and not recognize that it's, it's it's very intense. And I recognize, too, that kids are exposed to very intense situations in their personal lives. And I tried to look at this curriculum in a way, through a child's eyes and through a parent size. And and I do want to speak a little bit to, even though I'm really heartened to hear that social studies is covered elsewhere, because I was really concerned about what was, what wasn't covered and what was highlighted. Is that when we were talking, when we were living through Covid, we as a, as a community and as a board recognized that kids were in really intense, intense situations at home and that they were carrying not only the weight of their own lives, but the weight of their families. And that school was a little bit of a respite from that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And the themes that come through the social science portion of the curriculum, really, and it kind of tells the kids that they're responsible for fixing really big adult problems.

[11776-191] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: as a board recognized that kids were in really intense, intense situations at home and that they were carrying not only the weight of their own lives, but the weight of their families. And that school was a little bit of a respite from that.
TEXT> And the themes that come through the social science portion of the curriculum, really, and it kind of tells the kids that they're responsible for fixing really big adult problems. And that's the theme that comes through over and over to me, is that we have huge, gigantic problems in the world, and you seven year old have to do your part to fix this. And I know, I know, it seems like I think you understand what I'm saying. Or maybe you don't understand what I'm saying. And so it was just that's the age appropriateness. And it wasn't I didn't see it as,  solely an introduction to,  what I would consider culturally relevant pedagogy, which is what I read a lot about. Sure. Yeah.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: I disagree, and I think when we look at the book, some books there, there is a level of intensity. But if you really look at the books, they are

[11776-196] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member (participating remotely) (uncertain - tw | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: So I dropped. Can you hear Rob?
TEXT> Yeah. My second child will go through her class. So I really respect her piloting this program and put a lot of faith in  what she's saying about this. I want to make sure that I speak up on behalf of the educators that reached out as well, while simultaneously kind of throwing my support behind what I'm hearing. So what I'd like to kind of angle towards is how would you respond to people that are saying they agree with the content? They're afraid of it becoming too heavy handed, though. Is there a way that we can communicate to the parents that we hear your concerns about it coming across? Borderline indoctrination is the word that I heard. How can we reassure them that they are incapable hands, that you guys have vetted this material, that you're not trying to indoctrinate our children? You're really just because, honestly, I would much rather than have these conversations with Mrs. Lockwood rather than, you know, runny nose. Johnny on the schoolyard. So I would like to hear your feedback on that.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: So I. Would say to. Principals, where are these units and where are these books coming from?

[11776-220] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-07-21
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: What does it mean? Vetted by the community. What's the end goal there? Has that been part of the process in the past? New curriculum is having the community that I.
TEXT> I think that there's a lot of concern. I mean, we're hearing that there's concern from educators. We're hearing that there's concern out in the community. I think that there is a lot of content that is fantastic. I mean, that's the one thing I want everybody to get out of this is that we're not trying to beat down the content, but there is questions of age appropriate ness. If it's to too much like we want to see gains don't get us strong. That's like that's what our goal is, is to have these children grow up and actually be able to to take the knowledge that they're getting from us and produce with it. So  I think that whether it's the community. I mean, I think we need maybe we need a meeting with the people from Fish Tank that you spoke to before. We fully implement, implement and roll it out because I think there's a lot of uncertainty and still some questions.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just jump in quickly. I'm probably going to say the same thing Melissa is, but, past practice has been the development of a curriculum goes to the curriculum committee. Once

[11776-232] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member | 2021-07-21
PREV> Melissa Lewis: they hear other kids talking about. And who better to guide a discussion and know when the developmental level has been reached than teachers who work with kids every day at that level. So just my $0.02 and I promise to be quiet. Thank you.
TEXT> That's kind of what I was going to go to. The community is not going to know one way or the other. The community as a whole does not work with these children every day. They don't understand their needs as much as the teachers do, or they're not going to know if this curriculum is going to work for them or not. Which clearly it is, because I've never seen I read scores jump that much, and we've been using the program for two years, which that's another program that  was implemented that I'm sure didn't need community feedback because it's another tool. I mean, teachers use different tools every day, and I don't think the community needs to tell them how to do their job.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[11776-251] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: at social studies is, whereas Abraham Lincoln, my first question was Temple Grandin and no Thomas, no, no Thomas Edison. I mean, that was my initial response. To and, but it's more than that. It's really about teaching kids, skills that will serve them well.
TEXT> We still look at a lot of test data back all the way back to the knee app days. The app kneecap, SATs, SATs, and the example that you showed up there of a typical  SAT question was right on. They are  content questions couched in a in a English language comprehension comprehension based  paragraph. And it's being able to interpret what's in there and respond to it is far more important than what the actual content of the science topic is. I used to do that with my advisory at the high school. We would go over, see,  kneecap release items include strategies. So I was in the camp of we need to we need to have more time. But I'm not anymore. I think I think that we can roll with this. I think it's okay.  I have faith in our teachers. I have faith that they will continue to communicate as they as they should and do.  I don't see a big public uprising to this. I think that just the kids excitement alone. I knew the answer to the question. That's why I asked it. That's why I asked it about three times. I wanted to hear you say it, but it was a I know, I know, it engages readers.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I used to do title one, so it's a, I think it's a great thing. I echo everything that that just about everything that Heather has said about the value

[11776-255] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: The squeeze machine.
TEXT> Yeah, and learn about the other areas. I'd love to see, you know, some of these awesome books about Thomas Edison, about Benjamin Franklin. You know, these are great books. And that's I think that's what helps engage the kids is the, you know, the nice pictures, the artwork, the,  seeing, you know, some of this,  more diverse to through social studies, through the other sciences. I think we could put this out until we're blue in the face and ask people to come and give their input. And lots of times we hear crickets. And I hate to say it, you know, we can you can bring the horse to water, but you can't make them drink.  I, I  think putting a trust in our teachers,  figure out somehow, you know, maybe email, get this out to parents to say this is what's, you know, what we're doing. I personally don't see any reason to hold this up.  You know, to roll this out for next year.  Like I said, I came with more reservations, but I think you answered a lot of those questions. And so.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to give Rob Rob the opportunity to speak.

[11776-257] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member (participating remotely) | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm going to give Rob Rob the opportunity to speak.
TEXT> Program for some time. And there's still a vocal minority that's coming out of woodworks now that it's actually live and complaining on near daily basis. I agree that community input is going to be important. But I think equally as important coming out of Covid, coming out of quarantine is not delaying. What has evidence based results of improving our students academics. And I think delaying this further, to. Get additional input is is an unnecessary step at this time.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And I'll shut up. I'm with you, Frank, is that I was really heartened here that this was not what the that this was not the social studies program because

[11776-276] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: on us to show like a lot of districts have go online look at other districts a scope and sequence that you can see electronically that shows the tools that we're using, the efforts that people are making and maybe what, what the choices are.
TEXT> So just to not with no politics involved or whatever. This is how you go about selecting this. These are the readers, these are the supplements. These are the it takes time to do that. And what I am so excited about that Brant and Donna  in Tammy and and have really made fun a lot like piggybacking off of the exam for staff, because staff need to get excited about learning, and being part of those PLCs and new opportunities is the formation of what we have for review cycles,  critical research and action committees in the professional learning communities, which for those at home, we love our acronyms. Okay, so the idea of those is you meet on a regular basis with student achievement in mind, and you look at data to respond and inform your instruction period. That's it doesn't you don't need degrees or what. That's what you do when you meet on the regularity of that and the expectation of that. We're excited because we're doing that at all levels in the district next year. Again, hasn't hasn't necessarily been consistent in the same way rollouts are. Let's I mean you again, we don't need to it's sometimes it's hard to get everyone on board for a roll out. One pocket of teachers here get excited and things like that. But we need to bring this to scale and all valid points and transparently all valid points. So we're on it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. We appreciate you being here so late.

[11776-295] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> So just for clarification purposes, before I try to make another motion, Aaron Lee here tonight.  Are we seeking board recommendation or a motion right now to authorize going? Because last we left, the kids were still wearing masks. Are we looking to  mask the children?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Or so what we already did was we already made it, optional as as we could. We are we are, as an administrative team, going for the most normalcy back

[11776-317] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (departing for another district) | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: That, you know, and right now. And I think thanks to the high immunization rates in New Hampshire, our community transmission rates are not bad here.
TEXT> Well, Frank, we're running our summer program. Masks are optional. No mass on the bus. And I don't want to say anything because I don't want to get. But we're doing well. Our kids are, you know, together in the classrooms, and  we're back. It's normal and it's beautiful. So beautiful.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I guess my my statement would be your question. Are we okay waiting until the first meeting in August to to take a vote on on the beginning of

[11776-354] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: What's that? As long as they're a resident.
TEXT> As long as they're a resident. Yeah. If they want to take their money and go somewhere else, that school gets to decide whether to accept them or not. So if there's a very high needs child or there's whatever it is and the school says, we're not going to take that child because we're going to take only the children that fit within the criteria that we want, then the public school is left with. And if this sounds derogatory, I don't mean to be that way, but we still will have to accept all of the students. So if we do see an outflow of students with their dollars that go, then chances are what we have remaining within our school district is not going to decrease the cost per student. I foresee it increasing the cost per student. Now, whether we'll see a big enough number there to actually make a difference. We don't know. We haven't heard from anyone that I'm aware of. Nothing has come through my office on that. But it's the the dynamic of what this change can mean has  has pretty broad ramifications.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It may just one more information point. So my understanding is, is that if based on standardized testing, which at the high school is the SAT, PSAT SSATSSAT school day

[11776-355] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: big enough number there to actually make a difference. We don't know. We haven't heard from anyone that I'm aware of. Nothing has come through my office on that. But it's the the dynamic of what this change can mean has has pretty broad ramifications.
TEXT> It may just one more information point. So my understanding is, is that if based on standardized testing, which at the high school is the SAT,  PSAT SSATSSAT school day S.A.T. is that if a school or specific school or district or the schools within the district are  at the 40th percentile or lower,  if you're above that, you're exempt from this because you're seeing if you're in the bottom 40 40th percentile, you're seen as a failing school. And so that's justification enough for someone to say, have choice. This school is not meeting my kids needs. There are failing school. I want to send my kids someplace else. So it'd be interesting to know where are we? Because maybe it's if we're not not at the 40th percentile or lower, it's a moot point. So I don't know where we are as far as that goes.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[11776-384] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: Make it.
TEXT> Didn't graduate.  I would like to know either in the next meeting or the meeting after that, what is happening with those students? Is there a plan to and have some maybe some of them have already been re have already finished. But I think that it's something I'd like to know if there's a plan for those kids what what it is  and if not the next meeting. The meeting.
NEXT> Unidentified: After that.

[11793-76] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [20-60]; c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: do on this. It was very good work that we did with the other. We have all of the documents, all of the other people that we're going to reach out as well in survey for, for the elementary restructure so that that is one.
TEXT> Next, next slide is the previous we had a  the last Monday we spoke about, how we might align  maybe not necessarily have a common schedule. Okay, but how we might align  types of schedules for the Claremont Middle School, Stevens High School in for  the tech center so that we might advantage students with fuller schedules and more opportunities. And  and I want to say it was a little dry for those who were there, even for those who said all the time. But we we really started,  and we will continue the discussions and presentations to the board, to the community.  Once we start digging into this, I also had a conversation with,  with Superintendent Minahan in Newport, and as we did last year, to look at how we might  look at commonality also for the tech center sending. And that's that's something that we I know we haven't been necessarily satisfied with  at the high school and also with,  with Newport, when we run up and we're fighting for slots for our kids and we just want to do that in the year and  in more transparently so. I thought that was a fruitful conversation as well. So this is the master schedule for  for CMS for next year.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The next slide is the master schedule. That that we will have for Stevens. What I tried to do in the right side is little blocked on the screen there

[11793-89] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: It's built into the matrix. Steve.
TEXT> Yeah. The only thing that I see when we when we're speaking of visitors, are we talking about parents as well, or are we talking outside visitors? Just for clarification, because these students are around parents, I know that I've had kids from all over the district hanging out with my children  throughout the year. So I think the requirement during the minimal period for masking visitors is kind of just doesn't make a lot of sense to me, especially when you don't have to wear them in the grocery store. You don't have to wear them in Walmart. You don't have to wear them at gas stations. I mean, you're around people all day and you're sometimes approaching people so close. I think if we're in the minimal range right now,  as we're seeing that, I think the the a mask requirement doesn't make any sense whatsoever if we want to do it on the school busses, I guess. But at the end of the day, I think a lot of these kids have been around each other all summer.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Would have vendors do right now.

[11793-93] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Our vaccination rate in Claremont was higher than 42%. Steve, I'd be right with you. If it was 67%.
TEXT> At the end of the day, we can't force people to vaccinate. It's so just saying that we're going to use vaccination as the table as to how we're going to run this district doesn't make a lot of sense to me. There's people that are religious that have the issues with taking the vaccines. Then you have the people that are concerned about whether it's going to have reproductive harm of their students later on. So, I mean, there's a lot of reasons for the younger population to not vaccinate the older population. That's once again their choice. I think we're we're treading in dangerous water as a, as a public entity to start making requirements that don't really exist in that, quite frankly, you're treading on some legality issues until it becomes some sort of law. I, you know, basically saying if you don't do this. You're not going to do this. If you do this, we're going to do this. I think we're I think we're we got to be careful with it. And I would say that where we're in a minimal, a very minimal issue right now, how many children tested positive during the summer school program for staff members?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: No.

[11793-120] Mimi Rhimes | School counselor, Stevens High School, and summer school coordinator ( | 2021-08-04
PREV> Mimi Rhimes: sometimes text messages with my school Google phone. Throughout the end of June. So I know everyone loves numbers. So we had 137 students were invited to come and recover 200 credits, and I had 100 students confirmed they were going to attend summer school.
TEXT> And this is just the attendance average. So week one, we had about 80 students. We two, we had 67, and week three we had 55. And it's actually a good thing that number is going down, believe it or not. So this is as of today we've recovered 76 credits.  English has recovered 23. Social studies have recovered, 19, science has recovered two, digital technologies recovered six, Spanish recovered five and math is recovered 21. And then there are 12 students have recovered more than one credit. So the way we have it set up this year is not the kind of take no offense, but if Nick is in summer school and he has to do like math and English, we're having him finish English and then go do math. And so some students are able to get multiple credits, throughout their time in summer school, depending on how still working and how often they show up and if they're staying the whole time and on task. We've had students who have just been getting it done, which is great. Abby Group has been amazing to us this summer.  I talked to Willey before school got out and I said, hey, any chance you could provide like bag lunches for the kids every day? And he's like, I'll do you one better. And so we have a breakfast card upstairs with like, hot breakfast sandwiches. Sometimes we have pancakes. It's been delicious.
NEXT> Mimi Rhimes: And I love school lunches, most of you know. And then he's been throwing smoothies, milk, juices, sandwiches, pizza slices, chips. So there's snacks for the kids all day, which

[11793-121] Mimi Rhimes | School counselor, Stevens High School, and summer school coordinator ( | 2021-08-04
PREV> Mimi Rhimes: and I said, hey, any chance you could provide like bag lunches for the kids every day? And he's like, I'll do you one better. And so we have a breakfast card upstairs with like, hot breakfast sandwiches. Sometimes we have pancakes. It's been delicious.
TEXT> And I love school lunches, most of you know.  And then he's been throwing smoothies, milk, juices, sandwiches, pizza slices, chips. So there's snacks for the kids all day, which has been a huge,  incentive, I think, for them to kind of be on task and get things done, you know, they just need a break to go get an apple and go back and get their work done. That's what they do. So there's fruit. And I have to say, the kids have been amazing about cleaning up. We've had very minimal messes in classrooms, the whole time, which has been great. Next slide. And then we have Field Trip Fridays,  which is like a reward for students if they do well during the week.  Week one  Patrick, Bumblebee and Maple Lane. So I had to go to a wedding in Maine. Week two we went hiking in unity with Dawn from Sullivan County.  Week three, which was this past Friday. We went to an escape room a time out. We did not solve the puzzle, but they were very close,  and Nick was very impressed with how well they did with that. And I was also impressed too, because I had no idea what they were doing. So. And then week four, which is this Friday, we were going to sign up for a beach day, and it's supposed to be two degrees and sunny.
NEXT> Mimi Rhimes: Hopefully almost think that's it, that any questions for me about our summer school program?

[11793-124] Mimi Rhimes | School counselor, Stevens High School, and summer school coordinator ( | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: So, how many seniors?
TEXT> So in terms of the infamous group of 30? Yeah.  So I went from this group of 30. So we had one student recover  his English credit, and he's now a graduate student, which is amazing.  And then we've had we have a lot of rising seniors who are  who are now seniors this year who are,  able to kind of get back on track a little bit more for senior year, which has been amazing. So and the kids and also we have a couple  athletes who have been there as well, getting ready for fall sports, who want to make sure they get back on their respective teams and fields. This fall.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I got the sample, some of the Abbey Group food and you're right, it's.

[11793-134] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Next is Stevens High School. Graduation rate. Follow up.
TEXT> I see some familiar faces. I'm Nicole Gordon. I am the assistant principal at Stevens, and I'm just going into my second year now. So  we had a few trends that we wanted to highlight for all of you this evening and then,  address our completion and non completion rates this year and then talk a little bit about the interventions that we have been using and what we're hoping to employ in the future to see these numbers. The number of non completions decrease  and raise our graduation and completion rate. So  before we get into the completion and graduation question,  one of the things we wanted to highlight is how our students are choosing who do graduate are choosing to, move forward into the world beyond Stevens High School. And so, as you can see, with 2019 on the right going up to 2021, just this past year on the left,  we've seen a pretty steady increase.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: Students who are electing to or an increase overall in students who are electing to pursue post-secondary, either in a four year or two year school, based on our understanding

[11793-140] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: School there in the two year. Yeah. So it was.
TEXT> Next slide. And so sort of dovetailing into that 71%,  we are also finding there is an increased number of students earning college credit while they are enrolled at Stevens. This is a number that covers  mostly juniors and seniors. You'll get the occasional sophomore  to disaggregate the graduating senior data was fairly difficult.  But we're seeing that when we're looking at opportunities like,  community college enrollment. So River Valley or other institutions taking advantage of our Running Start programs that we have currently at  Stevens and our AP offerings, we're seeing the  number of students taking advantage of those opportunities increasing. I know that we are going to,  have a brand new running start economics class  coming in the 2122 school year. I believe statistics was a new program this past school year. So we're really excited to be strengthening that partnership with River Valley and having our teachers able to deliver those opportunities to our students.  And although 91 was our count for this past school year, we also wanted to note that several students are taking more than one class,  to earn college credit. But there are 91 this past year who earned at least one.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: So, that that all being said, one of the things that we really dug into was completion or graduation. Especially sort of in light of Miss Berry's statement during graduation

[11793-144] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicole Gordon: of them were offered a summer school or summer credit recovery opportunity. And I think one additional student, in addition to the one who has already completed his degree through summer credit recovery, is taking advantage of that. But it was offered to more students.
TEXT> Four of the students were enrolled in adult editor for the duration of the year because they are under the age of 18. They also show up on our Stevens High School rolls. And so they're counted in that that graduation number.  Then we have sort of this category of students that's dropped into or that's divided into two. We have students who were dropped, and I can talk about that in just one moment.  And then students who withdraw withdrew of their own accord. So we had three students who came in, and despite  all the counseling that are still school counselors and administrators and  staff had given them, made the made the choice to withdraw. And then there were 16 who were dropped,  due to. A variety of factors. Right. But they were 18 years old.  They had chronic and sustained absences. They had demonstrated failure to progress, and they weren't physically showing up,  whether it was for in-person learning or their remote option.  This isn't something that we do lightly. And this number, I believe, is increased over past years. These are students who we have tried every intervention and tool in our toolbox to try to engage, to try to, to get to come to school.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: And for these students, for a variety of reasons, we weren't able to get them there. These are students where teachers, school counselors, administration are reaching out on a regular

[11793-145] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicole Gordon: option. This isn't something that we do lightly. And this number, I believe, is increased over past years. These are students who we have tried every intervention and tool in our toolbox to try to engage, to try to, to get to come to school.
TEXT> And for these students, for a variety of reasons,  we weren't able to get them there. These are students where  teachers, school counselors, administration are reaching out on a regular basis.  We are engaging with them through our, attendance committee process, where, you know, we've got our school social worker involved. We've got our children, see officer involved in these our students that were just not able to reach. And then we have two down toward the bottom,  who are going to be granted the ability to continue,  whether for a medical or a personal family situation. So we're anticipating that one of them will be done.  At the end of first semester. So by January 2022, and the other is slated to complete and graduate at the end of the 2122 school year. So,  I made reference to some of the interventions that we engage in,  to really help these kids get to the finish line.  You know, we start at kind of our what I might think of are as our most basic. We are  in  contact with home teachers. Like I said,  school counselors, administration reaching out and, you know, trying to understand the why of of what's going on for these students.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: We also have the academic resource center and after school tutoring. We have our handful of staff who will engage in home visits for those hard to reach families. Our

[11793-148] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicole Gordon: really taken up the mantle on Job Corps. Referrals. We do. And really, she's kind of the point person. And our school counselors are doing a really good job of talking to families about what adult education looks like, what job Corps might look like.
TEXT> Some families aren't interested and really want to see their their student finish in a more traditional manner.  But those are always options that we put out there. And then we have our summer credit recovery program, which, as  Mimi has just shown us, has been pretty successful this year and helping our students to get that much closer to the finish line. That said,  there are some strategies that we've come up with and some programmatic needs that we've identified.  So one of the things that we realized that we are hoping will be remedied in large part with our new grade reporting system, is that we we have room to improve our communication and progress around progress and student achievement. So  one of the things that our new grade reporting system is going to do is help,  our teachers and our staff to more accurately and in a more timely fashion, identify who those at risk students are  based on academic achievement. We're going to really be able to see trends more closely with our new grading grade reporting system. And so we're optimistic. Pardon me that that is going to improve our ability to intervene early.  And it was definitely something that was in the forefront of our minds when we were making recommendations and decisions.  One of the things that I think we have a really great opportunity for is building a stronger partnership with adult education.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: One of the things that we had identified this year as something we could do better and we're working toward is that, we have some time. Sometimes we've made referrals,

[11793-153] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Were talking.
TEXT> Four years ago and there was some budget cuts and a position was changed, the director's position was eliminated.  We had to make some staffing changes. And for a  total cluster of reasons, we had to shut down the Alt program November 7th of that year and reabsorbed those 16 students back into Stevens High School.  And they had been  upstairs. And a lot of them were very hands on learners. They loved having access to the kitchen. They were making breakfast for each other or for the whole group.  We had, you know, plans for an afternoon co-op kind of  experiences for them. And what we knew about these 16 students, through the application process and through working with the families, was that they were not successful at Stevens High School, in the physical building,  that that kind of traditional academic approach did not work for these kids. And these kids had every risk factor and every red, red flag attached to them for being potential non-compliant.  And so,  you know, and the bottom line is that not a single one of those 16 students ended up graduating from Stevens High School for a variety of reasons. And, you know, we can prognosticate and we can talk about what the challenges that those students had, whether they would have if the old program had continued, if they would have still graduated even with the program.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: But but we know that what we don't have is an alternative opportunity for students of high, high risk. And we know that, it works when it's in an alternative

[11793-154] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: High School for a variety of reasons. And, you know, we can prognosticate and we can talk about what the challenges that those students had, whether they would have if the old program had continued, if they would have still graduated even with the program.
TEXT> But but we know  that what we don't have is an alternative opportunity for students of high, high risk. And we know that,  it works when it's in an alternative site where different kinds of programing and dedicated staff, full time staff can work with these students. And it's not for everyone. It's not a regular teaching gig, and it takes a certain kind of individual,  to to work with this population. But when you have the right staff, it is a phenomenal thing.  I would just if we put it in here because those kids would have been in that graduating class potentially. And I really want to kind of keep that as a topic of conversation moving forward for one of  the real,  gaps that we have in what we can offer to a significant population at the high school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So that's that.

[11793-165] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Coming onto the average. But Frank, in one year, 25% of the graduating class were alternative program students. So just thinking that's one metric.
TEXT> I right when it was the  when it was the Odyssey program and we and students we had 15 morning session students, 15 afternoon session students that was also housed here in the tech center. And then all of those students, you could only be a junior or a senior. You had to have at least 13 credits to qualify. And you were again, the traditional classroom wasn't working for you, and you came and you did all your coursework through Odyssey where and then you had an afternoon kind of, co-op experience. There were a number of things that that fell through with that program as well. It was a good option for  students at that time. You know, that's a whole nother conversation as to why that was dismantled. But that year, 2014 spring of 2014, 24% of the graduating class were graduating from the Owls program.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Okay. A follow up question onto this again. Sorry, guys. No. Are these more hands on learners? Like, are we talking like a kid that wants to bang a hammer

[11793-170] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1]; runs age | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: It was downstairs originally, right across from Alex's office.
TEXT> Yeah, computer lab there. And it went for several more years. And the graduation rates were, as Ben suggests, there was substantial.  And as Pat said, the what what it was was kids came down. Many kids who were almost. But the profile, what we did when we were writing the grant. I went and I toured a school in Rochester, Littleton. I went all over the state touring alternative programs, interviewing kids that were in those programs and trying in order to write the grant. So I do identify my target crew. And then what was I going to match? A program to address what was their needs? And I still have all my planning materials, by the way. But,  the overwhelming issue with these kids was school phobia overwhelming? They did not like being in school. They were smart, but they had a tendency to be very withdrawn and  and would act out when one cornered, but just really were uncomfortable in the physical environment. And as Pat says, the ideal environment for them is off campus. Yeah.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So. And can I make one more comment to just to put in a plug for this. You know, it's, a school of, you know, the size of Stevens High

[11793-172] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Heather and I've been talking'  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Ben Nester: the seacoast. Every high school. That's that's this saw that's just this size. That's not, you know, a Windham or something has an alternative program. So that's just my strong recommendation to, you know, everyone in the room that we get something back online ASAP.
TEXT> My only or one of my concerns, which may seem a little Machiavellian, is that although we're targeting graduation as our goal, it sounds like it's possible that these kids are not being prepared to actually function in a in a real world setting. And I don't know if there's a program or a way to integrate them so that they develop the coping skills to be able to manage what would be considered a standard environment. So if you understand what I'm saying, I do.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's as Pat said, though they would. Part of the requirement was that they would go to some other thing. The other half of the day, they were in their

