[8558-246] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Michelle Pierce: disrupt. These children are already socially struggling because we are in a low income, because we are in a drug infested place, because we have all these things socially and we do not even look at these social aspects. But I will tell you that.
TEXT> Will tell you that the most important thing is the best interest of the children, because that's why we're here. We're not breaking laws. We're showing people that we're strong enough to say we're not being pushed around. We're not being irresponsible. We are looking for the best possible action. Those children, if you disrupt those children now for an entire year again, to go through what you call the process, when the process has already been done, voted in, and I even heard somebody say on the board that they voted it in as a teacher, personally speaking, right now, you can't sit here and deny that. That has to be it. You're looking at an emotional upset of a bunch of children that are already fragile. Let's stop breaking them up. Let's stop. Let's stop this insanity, as he said. And let's start looking at how we can be the productive adults that we should be.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So does anyone really think that it's illegal?

[8558-267] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Appeal.
TEXT> The decision. It's illegal if we're appealing decision. But I think that we're it's more about the best interest of the children. And what I keep on hearing is we're talking about we're talking we're saying what we think is what's best for the children. But I have to say the most, when I was learning about this issue, the most educated, objective, detailed answer I got from anybody came from a child specifically was a 12th grader who was who was given our highest academic  all round student honors, is attending one of the best schools, you know, a top school in the country, she explained to me from a objectively. And she and what she told me was she wanted to know her personal workload was very different from here. She explained that she adapted quickly to the new schedule, but she was concerned about the fact that what others did not and were scrambling to figure out their limits. She found that information that they received as students was the most frustrating part and very conflicting. But she told me a lot of she was also telling me a lot of  I mean, I don't know, I could read the whole thing. I have a concern about the she questioned about why the we the having the a b schedule of with the. Full eight credits was way too much and and this is a student who excelled with both.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: She was excelling and working, working hard and challenging and challenging herself and feeling challenged before with the old schedule and the new one, she said she preferred the other

[8558-268] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: know, I could read the whole thing. I have a concern about the she questioned about why the we the having the a b schedule of with the. Full eight credits was way too much and and this is a student who excelled with both.
TEXT> She was excelling and working,  working hard and challenging and challenging herself and feeling challenged before with the old schedule and the new one, she said she preferred the other one. She adapted to it, but she was also a student leader and had a lot of concerns overall. And and I guess what I'm seeing is listening to I don't believe that this a B schedule is doing well by the children. I'm not convinced it needs to be tweaked, and I think that the processor we're going to go about about it is not going to be by you to try and jam this through and then hope that the courts will side with it. There it obviously there are things that need to be fixed about it.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We've already discussed tweaks that are that are looking to be made anyways, and anything that you do has to be tweaked. So and really, you know, and we discussed

[8558-269] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (uncertain - separate cluster; chair reco | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: the processor we're going to go about about it is not going to be by you to try and jam this through and then hope that the courts will side with it. There it obviously there are things that need to be fixed about it.
TEXT> We've already discussed tweaks that are that are looking to be made anyways, and anything that you do has to be tweaked. So and really, you know, and we discussed this before Patrick, this isn't necessarily about the kids that are high achieving on both schedules. That's great that they are. This is more about like we discussed, the kids that will go a year and a half without that math class and they lose their skills. This is about the kids that that need that extra, extra help. We put that intervention block in to help those kids. If we go back to the 4x4, we're losing that. We're losing that extra help. We're losing that safety net.
NEXT> Unidentified: We don't have.

[8558-277] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (cluster also carries Vice Chair Chris Ir | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: With 4x4 schedule.
TEXT> That's it. That's a that's a way of change. Two of our. Okay. You need to fire these two people now or start trusting that they are both qualified in this room to tell us what's best for these kids. We're paying them a lot of money to tell us what's best. I don't know how you can say you talk to one kid that doesn't whatever, and challenge the fact that these professionals who we've hired to run our entire system for us, they don't know what they're doing. But I believe it's bad because I think it might be bad because maybe I think it might. They're the ones that are telling us it's bad. The statistics are telling us it's bad. We have no right to sit up there and think, well, somebody told me something and I don't like it, so therefore this might be bad. Our kids are going to pay the price for our cowardice to do the right thing, but we don't know for our agendas that are what we.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Should do right now is the right thing, Patrick.

[8558-281] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (cluster also carries Vice Chair Chris Ir | 2016-08-03
PREV> Unidentified: Why not?
TEXT> Because it was voted down by the teachers. Thank you. So we had to incorporate it into the a B schedule. If we go back to the 4x4 block that's gone,  that extra help is gone. Everything you're saying would be absolutely perfect if we actually had the other side of the table that was willing to work with us for our kids. They are not. They have proven for the last year and a half that they won't even come to the table to talk to us. What are we supposed to do? If the people that were supposed to be taking care of our kids don't want to talk to us about what's best for them because the union is driving the train, that's the fact that you to appeal it in court without going without pushing this button. They're running the show and we have no power whatsoever. That's the truth of this matter, right?
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: I'm done. Thank you. What's wanted to have my first made.

[8558-310] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (cluster also carries Vice Chair Chris Ir | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: That's very.
TEXT> Look who pays the arbitrators. We weren't going to win that no matter what. The fact that it goes back to the same arbitrator for the appeal, it's a flawed system. And it some point there's a reason there's been no precedent because nobody's had the cajones to stand up and say, wait a minute, this system is horrible. It's hurting kids. We need to be that system. We may lose. I know he's just saying, I don't know. My crystal ball is just as good, but somebody's got to stand up and say, wait a minute. This system is flawed for me. It's borderline corrupt. It's ridiculously favored towards unions and not boards. And ultimately, whatever. We wait to kick down the road here, our kids are going to pay the price. I'd rather be wrong in two years, and even if it was a personal liability, I would rather be long wrong, lose my seat, lose my money. And no, the kids didn't suffer for our lack of foresight and guts to fight for the courage of our convictions. We started this fight. Why are we stopping now? We knew we were going to hit these hurdles. Somebody's got to take this all the way to find out, even if what was negotiated away was okay to do that. That's what that's what? No one's ever proven that in court.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: I'm not. I'm not.

[8558-313] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (cluster also carries Vice Chair Chris Ir | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Doing anything.
TEXT> That could have been illegal then. So if we know it was wrong. Why do we keep exacerbating it by saying, well, it was wrong. We can't fight it. Let's just live within this wrong thing. Let's find out once and for all if it was wrong, if again, if nothing else would do the best we can for our kids, we may lose. But I think we win. And I would say to Patrick.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: You.

[8558-320] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Pat', 'Miss Berry' (ASR)) | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Pat what do. You got.
TEXT> And and Brant, to your point and I think it's what Richard's talking about. If that was the scenario, I know that the teachers at Stevens want what's best for the kids. They will sit down  and in that scenario, they will discuss with everybody at the table what needs to happen in order to make the rest of the year work. I don't see that they will do what is not in the best interests of kids at that point. That's I truly believe that about the faculty. They wouldn't hamstring their students over this in that scenario. Another piece that I just want to point out to everybody, the program of studies that all of you voted on, and that is the Bible by which we we do everything, all our, you know, it describes our courses, it talks about our diploma choices. It talks about a sequence of studies and the number of credits that becomes completely null and void. If you go back to a 4x4, virtually everything in that program of studies becomes a moot point. And that has to be reconstructed from scratch and revolted on. So I and that your program of studies is your philosophy. It's what you say you are doing as an as an institution, and this is what you believe in and this is how you're doing it.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And we wrote that and you voted on it based on the philosophy of the a, B. So I point that out to you is another piece that hasn't been

[8558-324] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patricia Barry: Carrying them simultaneously versus four and four that way, or three and three, that is definitely the difference. But then it goes to Brian's point of the continuity and the lack.
TEXT> Of and I am I do favor an a, B schedule. And I think I'm just looking at for me it's been more about the process of. I guess my only question if so, if the teachers were I mean, it'd be nice if we had the guarantee of reassurance that the teachers are going to kind of, would go with us. And, you know, for, for the best interest of everyone.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: But I will stake my reputation on that. The, the teachers of Steven's high school will rise to the occasion and do what they need to do in that scenario.

[8558-327] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Pat', 'Miss Berry' (ASR)) | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: because I want to know where it, it, it seems like the, the teachers could have kind of gotten couldn't they have gotten the union to desist on at that time. I'm sorry I it opens. I'm not trying to put you on the spot.
TEXT> No. And I you know, I, I wish we could go into the school year and everything would be a moment and everybody would feel really good about everything. And we could just focus on education, you know, ideally that's the scenario. But what I have heard at the the last three graduations, the predominant theme is  stop changing stuff on us, stop changing, stop changing. Please give us a sequence of years in a row where you're not changing our grading and changing our schedule and changing our the kids are they're up to here with change and they need stability. And that would be my other point. It would only be the second year into a different schedule, but it would be some stability versus lack thereof and more change yet again. And so that would be my final comment that, that is that has been an outcry from the kids that I've heard since I've been there. You know, they've they've had three principles in four years. They've had three assistant principals. In three years. It's just nothing but change for them. And I want to give them stability. And if this is one way in which we can provide it for this coming year, I think that there's great benefit in that. I just wanted to say that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay, Michelle.

[8558-331] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Michelle Pierce: time we allow this kind of bullying, which is what it is, they're bullying us to make a decision tonight because we have to make a decision tonight. Why? Because that has to be implemented. Why tomorrow? So we are forced into a decision today.
TEXT> But the decision has to be based on what we truly believe will be the right thing. It's one of the few things that I had the opportunity to read a lot about. Watch on TV with you guys. I saw all of the I've seen the improvements. My own niece and nephew are going back to school because of the system. Believe it or not, they're low income. You know, they're going to actually get an education that might be better than what it was. So I'm asking for each and every one of you on this board to please  in your heart,  think about the fight because that we give to them. And then we go back to our business and they deal with it as big old adults over there. While we tend to making sure our children get the best possible.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: All right, Chris.

[8558-333] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: All right, Chris.
TEXT> I do want to thank everybody because I know we're all passionate and I know we all care. We absolutely all care, and we all care for the kids. So I don't want anybody to think otherwise of that. And it's a tough issue. But Pat just brought up a really good point. And I'm asking everyone to you got to think in your heart what we believe is right. What we believe is right for our kids. And that change factor is a biggie. We have an opportunity to not change it and continue with a little bit of stability now, and I'm putting this out there. The union will have to make a choice to say, you know what, we're not going to be the ones to turn this upside down on the kids, and if they truly care about the kids, they will stop it and back away and work with us to do what's best. I haven't always just saying that out loud. I didn't get elected up here to sit here quietly when I think something wrong is happening and it's wrong, I am not going to be part of deliberately making it harder for our high school kids. We may lose, and down the road somebody else is going to say, guess what? You're going to have to make it hard for your high school kids, and I will fight that fight from the mountaintop when that happens.
NEXT> Chris Irish: But right now, tonight, I have a choice that I can say we are not going to disrupt our kids anymore. And if the union tomorrow, weeks from now, decides

[8558-334] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Chris Irish: for our high school kids. We may lose, and down the road somebody else is going to say, guess what? You're going to have to make it hard for your high school kids, and I will fight that fight from the mountaintop when that happens.
TEXT> But right now, tonight, I have a choice that I can say we are not going to disrupt our kids anymore. And if the union tomorrow, weeks from now, decides they want to fight that fight and deliberately hurt our kids. Game on. Give me the gloves. I will fight toe to toe publicly. And I don't have an issue saying that. It's not the teachers. It is not the teachers. It's the machine. Take the machine away. The teachers would be here. How many teachers have been there? Because the union wouldn't allow them. How many have been at these meetings? How many meetings have we had? We talked about this. Not one. Patrick. Nobody has stood up and opposed what we've done. Nobody because they want to be. The union is controlling the fight that says we're not going to blink. I'm done. It's not the teachers, it's the machine. And the machine isn't even here tonight to talk to us. If they were, we could have this discussion with the opposition. Right now, we're having to be opposition and pro. We're fighting for ourselves because they're too cowardice to talk to us.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I'm done. Whatever we do tonight, I can sleep good tonight knowing I did not deliberately screw those kids and my kids out of high school, I could say, yeah,

[8558-335] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Chris Irish: the machine. And the machine isn't even here tonight to talk to us. If they were, we could have this discussion with the opposition. Right now, we're having to be opposition and pro. We're fighting for ourselves because they're too cowardice to talk to us.
TEXT> I'm done. Whatever we do tonight, I can sleep good tonight knowing I did not deliberately screw those kids and my kids out of high school, I could say, yeah, I don't have a dog in the fight. Whatever. No, we're here to take care of those kids. From last year to next year to the year after. We need to make a stand right now. And if someone else wants to hurt the kids, I'll fight them to.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Right. I'd like to. I'd like to get a vote on this.

[8558-398] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (separate cluster; recognizes 'Chris', 'P | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: But that.
TEXT> Made a really good point about the change. Had a lot of changes.  Tried to make a lot of positive positive changes for the kids.  And seriously, going back to the block schedule is really going to throw our kids for loop.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Let's give them.

[8558-402] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (cluster also carries Vice Chair Chris Ir | 2016-08-03
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Safe and comfortable and consistent. It's consistency is what creates people, good people.
TEXT> I know for me, I would much rather wake up tomorrow when I see in the paper that I'm getting yelled at for breaking the law or fighting a court order, whatever you want to call it, versus I just made a decision that's going to hurt our kids for who knows how long we go down this road and cave. There is no guarantee if ever we get the ability to undo the damage we're about to do. And I say that with all my heart, just know the consequences that you could be putting on the table for our kids, your kids, and everybody else's kids in this community. And the last thing we need to do is, do we just gotta stop this madness of caving every time we get a little scared? Melton.
NEXT> Unidentified: You had a question.

[8558-417] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: We would be not if we pass this. We're not complying and we've already done a motion to appeal. So then we would therefore we contradicting our we rejected a motion where we'd be fine.
TEXT> And if you make a valid point and Richard just and Pat just made it even clear to me we're not putting not comply in the motion. And by telling them to go to a B tomorrow, we're still not not complying until the school year starts and we're still on a B. It doesn't matter what we say, we're not complying until the first day of school. So Richard's point is perfect. If we vote to stay with a B, we have until the first day of school for the the union to decide to work with us or not. And if they say, screw it, we're not going to work with you, then we have another decision to make. At that point, do we just go through the school year or keep going? Obviously I'm going to push. We keep going. But no matter what, whatever we do tonight is not illegal or violating, violating anything tomorrow because the school year has not started. So by voting to stay with a B, that buys us the time that puts the pressures on the union to work with us for the kids. I'm even more convinced now it's the right thing to do.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: We would have to. We wouldn't have to do it. We do have the time in our schedule to make sure that we could we can get something.

[8558-422] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: We're.
TEXT> Setting ourselves up, would you rather set yourself up for a little heartache on the board or failure for our kids? It's that simple. Do we want to fail our kids or do we want to fail as a board? Take your pick.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: What do you got, Richard?

[8558-467] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (separate cluster; recognizes 'Chris', 'P | 2016-08-03
PREV> Unidentified: But the schedule.
TEXT> Is not something for how we teach our kids is not something the union votes on. I understand.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: This quite is about.

[8558-478] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (cluster also carries Vice Chair Chris Ir | 2016-08-03
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: That.
TEXT> Is not the kids.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Don't put.

[8558-497] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brent Ferland: Just vote to appeal to.
TEXT> The kids are important.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I don't believe I'm not hearing.

[8558-501] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (cluster also carries Vice Chair Chris Ir | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brent Ferland: Did we just vote to continue to appeal the process? Yes or no?
TEXT> When are we. When are you going to fix it? Right? When are you going to fix it for the kids? Yeah. No. Down, guys. Let's just stop with crime. Go ahead and make the motion to go backwards and go forward for at least have the courage and convictions to do the wrong thing and do it in public. Get it over with so we can be done. You're gonna, you know, you got the numbers. You know you're getting what you want. You you're missing  the pit. No. I'm done. I'm not playing.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'll make the motion.

[8558-542] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Except I just want to say that the arbitrator.
TEXT> Is not an attorney. He didn't interpret the law correctly. The PLB are not attorneys. That's why the Supreme Court is our best opportunity to have legal minds. This is not about children. It's not about student achievement.  It's about interpretation of law.
NEXT> Unidentified: People are going to lose jobs. Well. Just go with them.

[8568-45] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: And if the council members want to add to that, or we can further refine that once we hear the school school districts overview, that would be great. So that really concludes my part of the discussion.
TEXT> Purpose of tonight's presentation. And I had not seen Charlene's presentation, but,  my presentation dovetails with what she said. My objective is to repeat what I said a few years ago, that the Claremont School District can't go forward without the city of Claremont, and the city of Claremont can't go forward without the school district. So we are partners. So I don't consider this meeting to be political. I consider this meeting tonight to be essential, and that we need to be able to pull in the same direction once we identify those priorities. Not only is the schools, though, impacting the students future, but it will impact the future of Claremont. And that's not a nice thing to say. I think it's a very accurate thing to say. I would like to just share with a few minutes some slides from a book that was published in 2015, Our Kids The American Dream in Crisis. Now, this sounds very pessimistic, but the reason I'm going to be sharing a portion of this with you is to emphasize how important education is for our future, and that education must be part of the discussion. When we talk about a diverse  socioeconomic area. The reality is we have,  families in crisis. We have children who have specific needs. There is a relationship to poverty.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It is not the majority. It's a minority, but it's still a critical group. And we need to talk about that. And we need to discuss what the schools are

[8568-47] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: that that are certainly warranted. Charlene talked about the company that is that is screaming for for qualified men and women to work in welding. This is another chart that birthrates to unmarried mothers by education. And if you notice, you'll see the birth rate.
TEXT> And the percentage of of years of the child birth for those who have bachelor's degree or more and the frequency  of the child rate, birth rate rather for those who do not have the skill set. So there's a correlation there. Another interesting correlation deals with the trend in median age of mothers  of the first birth, when the education is weak, young ladies have children earlier, when the education is strong or their specific skills, their first child comes at a later time. And we know the impact of having a young lady or young man being parents. Another is children ages 0 to 7, living in a single parent family by a parent education. And if you notice the number of children proportionally by percentage who are living in a single parent home where there is a solid education versus the number in the past 20 or 30 years who do not have a solid education in school, suspension or out of school suspension discipline. High poverty high schools have more disciplinary issues. At the bottom, you'll see free reduced lunch. So a school that has a very low free reduced lunch population. Students eligible for assistance have fewer problems, have fewer suspensions than those who have a very high free, reduced lunch.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That isn't because children of poverty are discipline issues. They are being brought up in an environment that's very different than children who do not live in that environment. They're

[8568-48] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: schools have more disciplinary issues. At the bottom, you'll see free reduced lunch. So a school that has a very low free reduced lunch population. Students eligible for assistance have fewer problems, have fewer suspensions than those who have a very high free, reduced lunch.
TEXT> That isn't because children of poverty are discipline issues. They are being brought up in an environment that's very different than children who do not live in that environment. They're not born that way, but they learn certain strategies, certain ways of approaching and also to the investment in education, adolescent obesity. Look at over time, the percentage of children who are obese, whose parents have a skill set or higher education, and the parents, the children of parents who do not have high school or less. So there's a correlation of wellness as well with this discussion. So what can the schools do? The reality is that students in poverty. Have they're in a world of inequalities. The public school system wasn't created to deal with children of poverty. School district now are making adjustments to be more appropriate with children of poverty. A child who comes from a financially challenged home. We can't fix that. But our mindset about that child is critical. When I first arrived here, there was a mindset of some that was shared with me and it was very clear you can't expect children who have challenging life styles at home, or parents who are or don't have high school education you can't expect. So without realizing it, these individuals who spoke to me lowered the expectations of the child. 60 or 70 years ago. Our nation judged people by color that way. So it's something that occurs.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And the reality is, if we look at a child who comes from a financially challenged home, who comes dressed to see the shoveled, if we lower our expectations for

[8568-49] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: who are or don't have high school education you can't expect. So without realizing it, these individuals who spoke to me lowered the expectations of the child. 60 or 70 years ago. Our nation judged people by color that way. So it's something that occurs.
TEXT> And the reality is, if we look at a child who comes from a financially challenged home, who comes dressed to see the shoveled, if we lower our expectations for that child, we are, in essence, being gatekeepers for that child's future. And unintentionally, biases can affect the interactions and the expectations. Now, I have seen many of my beginning, my six year in Claremont. I have seen many cases of teachers who acknowledge a child is challenged, but do not lower expectations and are committed to that child being successful in reaching out to the parents. But I would be dishonest to say that that's universal. And this is a critical, critical factor. There are some myths about poverty. People of poverty are unmotivated, and they have weak work ethics that has been proven to be false. Now, we may all know of certain cases, but nationally in this book was written in 2015. Nationally, they are not unmotivated or weak. Work ethics you make stereotyped them to be. That's why they don't have money. That's why they are poor. But that does not play out their uninvolved and value education. Absolutely false. Many times they don't have access to transportation to go to the school. Many of them may work two jobs. Many of them may have poor experiences in schools. But to say they're uninvolved and don't value has proven to be wrong.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Tend to abuse drugs and alcohol. In truth, the drug and alcohol problem is larger. In our communities that are fluent, there is no there is no relationship that if

[8568-50] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: education. Absolutely false. Many times they don't have access to transportation to go to the school. Many of them may work two jobs. Many of them may have poor experiences in schools. But to say they're uninvolved and don't value has proven to be wrong.
TEXT> Tend to abuse drugs and alcohol. In truth, the drug and alcohol problem is larger. In our communities that are fluent, there is no there is no relationship that if you are of a low socioeconomic status, you are more prone for using drugs and alcohol. That is not proven to be true. A poor because of low intellectual capacities. Again, if you believe these myths, you can see why the expectation would be lowered and if they are lowered, we look at these children differently than we would look at a child,  who comes from a different family. And I will tell you, it wasn't that long into my tenure where I was told by students of cases where who you are and what you look like depends upon how you treat it. Now again. Am I doing a blanket statement for the entire school district? I am not, but I am telling you that there are pockets with this occurs. Teacher expectations is the critical piece and I've talked to you before. There are so many of our faculty here in the Claremont School District who look right through the socioeconomic appearance of a student and are committed to that student.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: More than 50% of the academic outcomes of school aged children is related to the teacher and their commitment and their attitude and their expectations. So we're not talking about

[8568-52] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: factor. And in fact, we are making a sincere commitment with that, with our food service program, with our, also working with different organizations, such as from Dartmouth College, where we're talking about and providing students with opportunities to learn more about nutrition and health.
TEXT> But there are students of poverty are at risk with health and nutrition. Now that we have a full scale breakfast program and students access that, we are being able to provide students with certain opportunities in the morning. That may not have been the case universally. Effort and energy. Many times we think that our students who are challenged financially are really don't care, don't have the effort, but in truth, reaching out to these parents and also putting an extra intervention for our children of poverty makes a tremendous difference. And that's what parents appreciate working with their teachers mindset by teacher thought I was smarter than I was. So I am once again the Pygmalion effect, the whole concept of the teachers mindset and not looking at a student in a different way and relationships without question. The one thing that makes the greatest difference, and I've seen this in my entire career, is the quality of relationships between adults and student. It makes a huge, huge difference. In fact, research has shown again and again it makes two thirds of learn a lot more the way I'm treated, how I feel about myself. And that's about so many of our dedicated faculty here in the  Claremont. Full day kindergarten. This past year  was our first year of full day kindergarten. I want to go back to April 2014 by.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: In April of 20 1420 1314, we had half day kindergarten. In April, 44% of the kindergarten students were below or well below the benchmark of where they should be.

[8568-53] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the way I'm treated, how I feel about myself. And that's about so many of our dedicated faculty here in the Claremont. Full day kindergarten. This past year was our first year of full day kindergarten. I want to go back to April 2014 by.
TEXT> In April of 20 1420 1314, we had half day kindergarten. In April, 44% of the kindergarten students were below or well below the benchmark of where they should be. In a test called Dynamic Indicators of Basic Early Literacy, where it indicates where the child should be and where the child is, not what the deficiencies are. April 20th 1,444% below or well below the first year of full day kindergarten. January 20th 1,672% in January met the benchmark that talks about full day kindergarten, that talks about the investment we've made full day kindergarten, early childhood education, early language development, socialization skills. Full day kindergarten is an enormous and enormous asset to the city of Claremont, and if all goes to plan, we will increase our commitment to prekindergarten ages three and four, and you will hear about that in the future. Some examples. This was a presentation by the principal last year, and it talks about a pretest. And a post-test number represents the percentage of students who have a skill secured after 2 to 3 weeks of targeted instruction. There is a pretest. They had the child's skills, there is intervention, and then they have a post test. Look at the change in dictation, writing, mathematics, order sequencing again in math intervention, we're not just covering the curriculum or following the text.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We are measuring the results of students, their achievements. When there is a lack of achievement or there's a problem area, there is a response. A successful school district measures

[8568-54] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: targeted instruction. There is a pretest. They had the child's skills, there is intervention, and then they have a post test. Look at the change in dictation, writing, mathematics, order sequencing again in math intervention, we're not just covering the curriculum or following the text.
TEXT> We are measuring the results of students, their achievements. When there is a lack of achievement or there's a problem area, there is a response. A successful school district measures its success by how well the students are performing and then what the school district does when they are not. Here is another example. Three weeks after a grade for student performance in mathematics pre and post. Look at the difference.  And that all pertains to the intervention in the public schools. We are going to make through different grants, federal grants as well as a year commitment. We are increasing our focus on early learning pre kindergarten to grade two. With that foundational effort, we anticipate seeing some major, major changes. And even in fact, I want to share with you that recently has Stevens High. School. With the SAT scores, our students, the class of 2018, scored higher than the state average and national mean. So I think it's important that the community understand that there's a lot of unspoken and unknown successes. But I think it's also important that the community understand that we have our challenges with these challenges. However, I'm optimistic we can go forward and we can go forward  without breaking the bank. Since 2011, over a period of five fiscal years, the increase had been less than 2%. That also includes a $12.5 million expenditure for the high school.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And in fact, even to the point where the budget would reduce almost $1 million as we plan for next year's budget by making some strategic changes, we did not

[8568-61] Bernie Fulton | Public commenter (named 'Bernie' and 'Mr. Fulton' on the record; spell | 2016-08-09
PREV> Bernie Fulton: schools, Middleton's presentation, I liked his data based approach. One of the things I would like to see the city of Claremont do more is data assessment. By that I mean how does Claremont compare primarily with appropriate New Hampshire cities? Is Claremont have a.
TEXT> Too many policemen per capita or not enough policemen per capita compared to comparable New Hampshire cities, or to many fire engines, or not enough fire engines or, too many unpaved roads or or above the the mean for a community like this. So doing more comparison with where Claremont lies with respect to appropriate New Hampshire cities, I think would be a useful exercise. I was very happy to hear. Superintendent schools. Middleton McGowan used the word correlations because one of the things that you learn somewhere along the line is correlation does not mean causation. So just because things are correlated doesn't mean without solid scientific study that something causes something else. I'm an old guy getting older, and I remember in my youth the culture was different here. For one thing, Claremont was the center of the county and the center of the region as far as population and as far as,  shopping. And it was Claremont was the center of this general area. Well, Claremont lost that for various reasons. But also at that time and even  before my time, poor immigrants came to this country looking for a better life. They worked hard. And the key thing is they wanted better for themselves than for their children. I don't know how to get that back, but we don't have so many parents anymore that want better for themselves than they had for others.
NEXT> Bernie Fulton: I'm proud of the fact that my three kids have all been to Europe more than once, and I haven't made it yet, and at this stage of the game,

[8568-77] Carolyn Towle | Claremont City Councilor (ASR 'Councilor Tol', 'Miss Toll') | 2016-08-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: That would be a priority.
TEXT> Absolutely. And the second thing that I would like us to really debate and come up with an action plan to follow is what we can do to, deplete the poverty level in Claremont. So for our children, up to our adults, I think there's a lot of areas that we can improve on. I'm not privy to all of the care that's being given through the school system for the poverty level kids. I would like to know more about that, see where we could fit in and evolve. Those are my priorities in this discussion.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Thank you for that. In response to what you were saying, Councilor Tol, I just wanted to let the, the group know that according to labor statistics and this is

[8568-85] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (addressed 'Councilor Pope' and 'Scott'; tech | 2016-08-09
PREV> Guy Santagate: Attitude is more important than water and sewer.
TEXT> That's correct. That was one of the things you went through a huge list. So I mean, I hope we celebrate these things and we start to turn it around. It'll take a long time. I came from a very poor community that at one point, after a steel mill closed at 27% unemployment, we have not seen that here. So I know what that is. They've been trying to turn it around for 25 years, but they've actually become very successful.  Now for Miss Toll. I'm glad that you mentioned the targeted vocational editor. At one point, the college had a person up there, and I hope that we talked to them about this. He was developing one hit training. The gentleman's name was Jim Britton. He has since left for a better job because he worked very hard and he deserved a better job.  He set up things like the hypothermia set training, and actually set pathways for my students. To get into that, I would suggest we talk to that the college and we look at that one hit training on site, because I know a lot of people and I'll just say it, a lot of people are saying, where are the people for Am?
NEXT> Scott Pope: They need 100 welders kind of thing. It's going to be a lot of training there. But we also build the pathways through our students and the awareness. And that's

[8568-86] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (addressed 'Councilor Pope' and 'Scott'; tech | 2016-08-09
PREV> Scott Pope: into that, I would suggest we talk to that the college and we look at that one hit training on site, because I know a lot of people and I'll just say it, a lot of people are saying, where are the people for Am?
TEXT> They need 100 welders kind of thing. It's going to be a lot of training there. But we also build the pathways through our students and the awareness. And that's how the Star program at hyperthermia became very strong, is that they didn't just develop that up there. They came to my school, they came to Springfield the whole bit. So that's one thing. And I'm glad you brought that up. And I just wanted to mention some successes that have already happened in potential for success before. I'll speak to hands in mind later, but that's all I needed to say.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Nothing. You. I just want to comment.

[8568-93] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-09
PREV> Chris Irish: and plans. I would love to see us before we leave here tonight. Commit to that subcommittee and whatever the makeup is. That was just my thought of the makeup of of of interest because in Canon Whalen are definitely it's there for the taking.
TEXT> And admittedly we're in a we're in a crossroads, in my opinion, for this tech center. And Newport is in a very different crossroads. And the tech center I work in Springfield is in a very different place. But collectively, there's a lot we can do for our kids.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So and that dovetails very well with what Mr. Goodwin was saying the other day, that one of the ideas of how, how do we get the work done is

[8568-145] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: It's a great question. So.
TEXT> Well, I, I can tell you, Nick, that, we could double the size of Stevens High School and have room. I'm talking about student population. Yep.  The other piece is we have done restructuring and we'll continue the restructuring as needed. So, I'm not saying that we have open classrooms in the elementary schools, but know that  it wasn't that long ago that 120 children from unity  came down for a year for Disney and Claremont Middle. So we did restructuring and how we did business to accommodate them. And the rest is history. So we don't have wide open spaces unused. But I think we do have capacity. And I think in the perfect world, if we can make progress with the direction we're going, we'll find more students, even from other communities paying tuition to attend Stevens High School. That is a that is an unspoken gem. And and it's building and growing as we speak, hiring outstanding educators, getting great instructional leaders. So but we have to cross some bridges first. But capacity Nick is there.
NEXT> Nicholas: And I had a question as far as so the council has talked about repeatedly, and we haven't followed through on it yet, but we don't currently enforce a curfew

[8568-155] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-09
PREV> Nicholas: Well it's on the books and not enforce. So either we remove it or we address it. But I didn't know if the school is seeing that be an issue.
TEXT> I wasn't aware of what you describing. I driving home after school board meeting 11:00. I see some young people,  but our attendance we have attendance issue with a with a small number of of of students. Is that related in fact or tardiness. Is that related? In fact what you're talking about I don't know. However it if their school age  and they are attending our schools, they're at risk by being on all night. So that's problematic.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I just wanted to because I think Nick's on to something with this. If we're serious about wanting to do something about poverty and truancy and all those things, we're

[8568-165] Unidentified | City Councilor recognized as 'Sister Mary Bergeron' (ASR; possibly Cou | 2016-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: They weren't paying attention to the growth, and it has grown okay. If you don't believe it's grown, go down on Central Street and see what that area is turned into. Okay, it's become a problem for this community and it needs to be addressed.
TEXT> And and how we address it. It's going to be the key thing. And I just want to address something that councils said too many times because and I'm not nothing against lawyers. We each have a lawyer sitting on our board. And every time we bring something else  or you can't do that because it's going to be challenged. That's what's wrong with that system today, is boards are backing away from a possibility of somebody taking us to court and challenge on something that needs to stop, okay. If we think there's something that we need to do for our community, let's do it. And if somebody decides to take us to court, they take us to court. We might win. Okay? We can't keep back in away from challenges because we're afraid to go to court. People can take us to court for anything they do. We need to stop that. As to boards, if we think school boards into something really important and it's going to benefit the students to go with it, if they just challenge, like you guys are doing on some other issues. Okay. And we've got to stop doing it as a council. Okay. Just because somebody said, well, you you really can't do that, it might be unconstitutional. Let's find out.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: At the very least, we have to do a. Risk assessment. Yeah. But to follow on with what you said, I have to because I have been at this for

[8568-179] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (addressed 'Councilor Pope' and 'Scott'; tech | 2016-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: The.
TEXT> Ross Kaplan's, Rick Howard's, the whole bit. I've talked to them, and they're pretty busy people these days. The poverty issue is something I see every day. We had a dental program here,  and I don't know if we still have that dental school. That's good. Yeah, I can tell you. Now, that changed at least 1 or 2 young people's lives. I had one person who was a junior, I mean senior, and he went through the dental program. He was going through some pro bono work after school. I didn't recognize the young man when he stopped me on the street two years later.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's nice.

[8568-183] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (addressed 'Councilor Pope' and 'Scott'; tech | 2016-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: I wasn't.
TEXT> Aware of the Spaulding High School. I, I go around and visit some schools down. Then they have a pantry. It's named after their mascot, and it's in the school. Some kids are too shy to go to a soup kitchen or go to some of these things are proud.  Kids are proud. So our adults, they have a little pantry and it's in the school and before a weekend. It's supported by Hannaford, Market Basket, all sorts of stores. They're they're giving food to this. And the kids who need this food for the weekend or even to get through a week, they go to this pantry very quietly. They get the food, put it in their backpack, taken home to their parents.  They're not robbing it because the other kids in there, if somebody is taken advantage, would certainly self police. It's a very good program. I would suggest calling Spaulding High on that. I believe they also have a clothing shop. When you go to a clothing shop here in town, you're probably going to have a hard time finding stuff that's actually suitable for teenagers, where some of these kids, they're giving good clothing and the kids are able to go in there and get that. It's just some ideas that I've actually. Seen here.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: There's actually a. Couple. Of people that give away free clothes, and you and.

[8568-190] Carolyn Towle | Claremont City Councilor (ASR 'Councilor Tol', 'Miss Toll') | 2016-08-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: A counselor.
TEXT> Couple things, I had written. I had got my packet this afternoon. I went through it and jotted some things down. There were first and foremost in my mind. But you hit the nail on the head. The marketing has got to get over the hump and start square one. I've heard for the last five and five and a half years. I have a grandson and a granddaughter that graduated. I graduated from Stevenson 65.  So it was the greatest experience of my life. And I look forward to hearing that from anybody that graduates from Stephen High School because they've gone through a terrific school system. In my opinion, however, there is a reputation out there that has to be overcome, and I would like to have step one challenge the newspapers  to stop putting,  the, the what do I want to say controversial things on the front page and put identifying editorials about our students on the front page. That's first and foremost in my mind.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Sort of like a life well lived that one of the papers does, you.

[8568-194] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - recognized only as 'Michell | 2016-08-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: great about that student that they're helping or I mean, the gamut is wide open if you think about it. And that's how we turn that all around. We need their help to we need the town papers to help us. And that's my challenge.
TEXT> We need to remember we got to go in this city in we we have to be able to go in and work with the people, not just the children. And we have to work with the adults to that. They're the ones that are struggling to make sure their children get fed. They're the ones that have to worry about whether their kids are going to get new shoes or food. I'm  one of the stops, as Nick is to that for for bread drop off and end of the week we go out and just distributed throughout Walnut Street, Pearl Street all the way down through  we you don't know what the poverty really is until you've lived in it. We live in it. I live in it. I'm in a poverty state.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Some perhaps a third subcommittee would be about the poverty. And you and you should be on it. And I say that only because you have you have, ground truth.

[8568-201] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-09
PREV> Patrick Adrian: to. It's it's very difficult. I guess tied to it would be also kind of, you know, how we after school programs and things like that, you know, we have for each program and there's, Sullivan County housing outreach coordinator, I. There was a position.
TEXT> This is part of this also falls on them as well, like how they need to be able to coming into the schools and communities. But it seems like that we there are these programs available. I'd like to see more youth and children in them for ages. Something definitely is very important to me. I've seen a lot of benefit from it. For kids, the challenge is how the how so many families have no idea about it and how how part of it needs to be the or the the organization, how they can kind of get,  get of families kind of aware of it and kind of to come check it out, but also how we can kind of be helping them as well and getting that information out. And when we have food programs, some food programs that are, you know, are there ways that we can be working together to in order to kind of make sure that families are aware of these opportunities that that their kids can be eating every day for lunch. It's really hard sometimes getting that information out. And I'd rather kind of just seems like it to be able to make some of these programs work. People have to be able to come to know they exist. Otherwise it becomes just this slow word of mouth approach.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Nick was next.

[8568-290] Guy Santagate | Claremont City Manager (ASR 'Mr. Santiago', 'Santa Gate', 'Guy'; surna | 2016-08-09
PREV> Guy Santagate: keep the clippings, but I don't believe my clippings. I try not to believe my clippings. And because it can be misleading, unless the story is accurate and true and you can prove. Yep. There's good news stories that his the proof of that he.
TEXT> So that has to be accurate and and real truth so so but but how do you measure if that's working? I guess it's a place where young people want to stay a long after graduation, because there is a career path, a job that they can live with.  And that's the quality of life,  that they can enjoy outside. And the number of programs we offer in the city are enormous, and people take advantage of that. We're glad that they do. But it's about the quality of life, the leisure, the outdoors.  And we have that in Claremont. You. I'm from Boston. On Boston. Don't tell anybody past. I try to keep it down. You know  down there they would give the right arm  to have what we have in two blocks here. You couldn't have planted, any better. And when I spotted that land for the community center, I went out to Claremont Savings Bank, said, we need that land. We got it. But that's because the middle school, technical high school, Arrowhead, the community center, the trail system  park and the high school. Wow. Well, for too close to it to see it, you've got the sugar River, which we have to do better on using it in some way  with the mountain to the left and green to the right.
NEXT> Guy Santagate: I mean, the quality of life. You said it's the pace here. Well, I glad I could drive a cab in Boston years ago. I knew it today I drive

[8568-291] Guy Santagate | Claremont City Manager (ASR 'Mr. Santiago', 'Santa Gate', 'Guy'; surna | 2016-08-09
PREV> Guy Santagate: trail system park and the high school. Wow. Well, for too close to it to see it, you've got the sugar River, which we have to do better on using it in some way with the mountain to the left and green to the right.
TEXT> I mean, the quality of life. You said it's the pace here. Well, I glad I could drive a cab in Boston years ago. I knew it today I drive down on my stomach because I'm used to  be waiting on Washington Street. Two light cycles. I had to wait and. But. But  anyway, I don't want to go on. But those are just quick thoughts. And based on what I heard tonight and not my own thinking, because I got  a chance to do that and some people think too many chances to do that. But but I try to say what I think and and mean what I say. So, but think about what we're trying to do with that. But it's a healthy city or a prosperous city. I like prosperous because just talking about money, it's more than my it's a quality of life, it's fiber, it's youth. It's those who want to stay. And they'll leave in a state in droves. They'll leave it in. New Hampshire is now outmigration. There's more people leaving than coming in. And it's a frightening. And talking to the governor about what to do about this. What we're doing is not working. And so but  there's a lot of big issues involved here. But we never give up. We're not going to give up. And we have a lot to say the future. So leave it there closed.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Anybody on the panel want to say anything?

[8577-9] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [16-28]; principal call | 2016-08-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: if you recall, we have had place based education. This is not a new concept here. And I think what's Cheryl Ferland? Erica Ferland excuse me. Erica Ferland was a when she was employed at Stevens High School. Was was a main drive force initially.
TEXT> And then we had that in the middle school as well as the elementary school.  And I'm just very pleased that the the New Hampshire Charitable Foundation continues to support the Claremont School District.  Also a reminder that Saturday,  August 27th, is the annual Back to School  festival at Adnoc. Part 10 a.m. to 12 noon. Rain or shine. And made possible through the hard work of many, many dedicated staff and parents including Walmart, Carl Collis Memorial Fund, Natural Field representatives, so  among others, so very pleased. And a reminder. And if you have not participated or attended, and I think most of you have, but if you haven't, it's very worthwhile. It really is a wonderful opportunity to see staff and ministration interact with parents and students, as well as how the community reaches out to support our students. Also again this year, the Sullivan County Dental Initiative is going to be in place. The dental. I'd like to read this. The dental initiative is pleased to announce that this year's program will add the application of silver diamine diamine fluoride SDF to suspected areas of tooth decay. SDF is a decay stopping fluoride treatment. Last year, we added the placement of temporary fillings to the services provided these preventative services will be game changers for improving outcomes and public dental health programs.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And New Hampshire is leading the way with this. The preventative services will include dental cleaning, fluoride varnish decay, stopping fluoride treatment, dental sealants, temporary fillings and follow up preventive

[8577-10] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [16-28]; principal call | 2016-08-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: diamine diamine fluoride SDF to suspected areas of tooth decay. SDF is a decay stopping fluoride treatment. Last year, we added the placement of temporary fillings to the services provided these preventative services will be game changers for improving outcomes and public dental health programs.
TEXT> And New Hampshire is leading the way with this. The preventative services will include dental cleaning, fluoride varnish decay, stopping fluoride treatment, dental sealants, temporary fillings and follow up preventive services. And needed ceilings are coatings that help prevent cavities on the chewing surfaces, temporary fillings or coatings that slow decay until treatment in a dental office can be arranged so the temporary fillings doesn't fix the decay, but it slows the decay. And that's very important,  especially if a student cannot get to the dentist as soon as we would like. But you think about dental hygiene  and then imagine a student with toothaches or dental problems. So there are some who may think, well, you know that really the parents responsibility. Well, the reality is that dental care is not always accessible. And so we are taking a big step forward in assisting  our children. So I'm very pleased with Kyle Messier, registered dental hygienist,  certified public health dental. I again with the Sullivan County Dental Initiative. And this will information will be going out next month to  our students.  And,  this treatment may need to be repeated anywhere from 6 to 12 months.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And if it's done properly, it will greatly assist in the reduction of the speed of a cavity as well as preventing dental decay with the seal it. So that's

[8577-14] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent introduces 'Mike La | 2016-08-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: do when there are certain situations in our school and at all points toward the safety of children, the safety of adults, the safety of the school community in conjunction with with the resources of our area. So Mike and Melissa, thank you and welcome.
TEXT> Basically, committee was formed to look at the emergency operation plans of all the schools in SA six. We found them to be in some parts outdated, some parts needed  really a nice refreshing look and a refreshing view of of the policies provided. So over the course of multiple months we got together using information of already, you know, created an approved emergency plans  using our committee as kind of a think tank, along with, with with local agencies and other information we could provide. We were able to kind of revamp  and recreate our emergency operations plan.  Really, it's a streamlined operations plan that provides safety protocols for all students in a functional, logical way.  The three elementary plans really parallel themselves so that the processes are almost identical with variances, you know, within each school in their location, the middle and high school echo their own needs. However, the plans still feel the same and follow the same clear and probable user friendly design. So it's it's a it's a well thought out, well established. And I think once we're complete, we're almost there.  It'll be a very useful plan that should be able to handle almost every single emergency situation that could possibly happen at our schools.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: The document is long, it's lengthy, it's, you know, it's almost 80 pages, and we're very proud of it. And it covers, you know, literally any, any emergency you can

[8577-97] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat is here to bring  | 2016-08-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Ago that was sent out electronically.
TEXT> I also before we get into that, I did want to just for the board's awareness, just let you know that on Friday, August 26th, we have a play works training coming to Stevens High School. Very excited about this. Corey has gotten in contact with the Play works.org organization, which is in Boston. It started out in Oakland is in Boston. They have chosen Claremont as the place in New Hampshire that they want to, extend their their resources to it. If you go to play works, it gives you a big overview of what that is. It's how to take nonacademic time in the elementary and middle schools, recess time,  in the high schools, things like pep rallies and assemblies and infuse play into those times, the things that we're all used to, things that are usually highly competitive, tag and dodgeball and things where, you know, often there are what results are incidents around bullying or harassment or kids getting hurt. And it teaches students and adults how to play in such a way that it's still competitive and it's still fun, but it's positive, and it builds one's sense of self-esteem and builds teamwork and builds positive school culture. And so we've got over 20 of our student leaders attending and also around 20 teachers, both from bluff,  and, Stevens, who are going to get this training.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And with the idea that our student leaders will then use these new games and new skills and strategies as early as September 1st, which is our freshman orientation, where

[8577-98] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat is here to bring  | 2016-08-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: it's positive, and it builds one's sense of self-esteem and builds teamwork and builds positive school culture. And so we've got over 20 of our student leaders attending and also around 20 teachers, both from bluff, and, Stevens, who are going to get this training.
TEXT> And with the idea that our student leaders will then use these new games and new skills and strategies as early as September 1st, which is our freshman orientation, where we're going to have our freshmen come in from 1 to 5, and we're going to spend at least an hour and a half with them in the gym playing and getting them to know each other, getting them to know some of our kids, getting them to be comfortable at Stevens. And I think often high schoolers think that by the time they're freshman in high school, they're not supposed to play anymore.  And I think it's really important for them to understand that even adults need to play. And there's there's good ways to play, and it's a part of being a kid and there's still kids. And I really think there's going to have a good positive effect on on what Stevens looks and feels like. So you're invited to come and to start in the gym.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Can we come to that one?

[8577-113] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat is here to bring  | 2016-08-17
PREV> Chris Irish: We should be. Absolutely.
TEXT> And finally, I don't know if it was mentioned earlier, but I had the privilege of being a part of a private signing this afternoon in the governor's office when Bill 152 was passed, which means better and stronger background checks for all schools throughout the state of New Hampshire. And it was one of those things that really, it that's why you do the job, you know, that's why you're in it. And the fact that we have a community that was able to take a really negative situation and,  and attack it and approach it in a, in a positive way to make a positive change for, for everybody so that, you know, we're better able to protect our students. And the governor was very impressed with the bill and with the people behind it and how it got done. She had a lot of nice things to say about Claremont.
NEXT> Unidentified: So well done.

[8577-119] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat is here to bring  | 2016-08-17
PREV> Unidentified: And good for you.
TEXT> So any questions on the student parent handbook?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I have none anybody.

[8577-125] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; addressed 'Brian' | 2016-08-17
PREV> Chris Irish: Thanks, Pat.
TEXT> Since we're we're on this subject, I guess I'll just. I'd like to at least let the public know that they may not have heard. The board has been updated with the discussions with the the that change back to the 4x4.  I was fortunate enough to meet with the SRA  last week, where we discussed the, I guess going back to the 4x4 and some of the challenges we were facing. I was also able to meet with  a pretty good group of faculty. To really hear right from them, their feelings on the schedule, what worked, what they felt didn't, what could really, I guess, use some tweaking. We were able to. Fortunately, everybody seemed to be in agreement that the flex was very beneficial to the students, and we were able to keep that going forward even  even though we're going back to the 4x4. So just wanted to wanted the public to know,  and I wanted to thank the teachers for  meeting and really,  being very communicative about what their thoughts were. And I look forward to seeing what happens. We had we had some discussion with the the Joint Council board meeting and we we heard some really good. PSAT numbers.  And really our failure rates.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Changed. So something obviously happened good last year. And hopefully the flex time was a big part of that. And I look forward to really seeing if we can keep

[8577-131] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [16-28]; principal call | 2016-08-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Before we start.
TEXT> So does anyone wonder why we're not? Why we are proud of Claremont? Know a lot of great things happening. A lot of challenges, yes. But the challenges are everywhere. But let's not forget what the good things that are happening as measured by our faculty, our students, our community. So, Brian, that was just a little editorial. I had to slip in their food service program. Michael Neil is going to give you all an update in regard to this. And working with the Department of Education. Mike.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: Although.

[8577-150] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (LeClair asks 'LADC, Frank, stands for'  | 2016-08-17
PREV> Unidentified: Do you.
TEXT> Think it'll be necessary to have off hours evening work, weekend work to. So it's minimally disruptive to the kids and teachers?  Or are they.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: I think that if they get right on it now, we still we still technically have almost three weeks before school starts. They'll get most of it done before school

[8577-178] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; addressed 'Brian' | 2016-08-17
PREV> Michael O'Neill: that exit out because those, those exit doors basically if you if you look on the roof, it looks like somebody tried like six times to put a piece of drip edge upside down to try to divert the water, but it's not working effectively.
TEXT> The Jim exit  on, I guess when you come out where, when the kids line up. Yeah, there is a the roof comes down and  there's a lot of ice that hangs down where the kids come out of that door.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right, right.

[8577-214] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [16-28]; principal call | 2016-08-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: didn't have, information in place. We had to do some homework on that. And, and administration of staff should have to do that. So now with the more attention and recommendation from New Hampshire School Board Association, this policy is before you for first reading.
TEXT> And we welcome any comments or questions. I did not write this policy. It comes with the recommendations of a New Hampshire School Board association. I also, did some editorial licensing by looking at some other districts who have put their policies in as well and tried to retrofit it to meet our needs. But the legal references  and there are six you can see it's very important that we are abiding by the rights  of all students, including our transgender and gender nonconforming.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any concerns? Questions? Except a. A motion for first read. Do we have a second? Any questions? You guys want to have any comments that we can?

[8577-236] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; addressed 'Brian' | 2016-08-17
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Sanborn, specifies that they will adhere to. The identity that the of the student that they associate with. But they also have  that they'll follow the guidelines from the interscholastic, or.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's going.

[8577-285] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey Leclerc has do | 2016-08-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: You, Krista, Corey Leclerc has done some work with this. Corey, you want to.
TEXT> Speak to the last year? And, you know, I said it at a previous board meeting and it came up on what's up, Claremont, what I said and all of that. And I'll stick with what I said the first time. And everyone who contacted me, I worked with them to try to find a solution. And so when we have custodial staff that the Claremont School District, which are the Claremont taxpayers, have to pay to have them in the building, there is a cost incurred. So, so to have sporting events in the buildings outside of regular custodial hours, there's some degree of costs incurred somewhere. Last year I worked with both Justin Martin at the Claremont Community Center and some other folks in the community  to not charge them anything for building use as long as the space was available and as long as the custodian was here. So we didn't charge any sort of rental fee or anything of that nature. It sounds like through reading social media and talking to folks, there were some other folks out there looking for space, but those requests never made it to me, so I wasn't able to support those or help in any way. But certainly we try to work, particularly with the community center, parks and rec department, because those are our kids, whether they're  in school, whether they're at the community center center, they're Claremont kids, there are kids, and we want to support our kids.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And knowing that they're participating in an in a basketball practice means that they're in a safe, supportive environment doing something healthy and athletic. And that's great. And so we

[8577-286] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey Leclerc has do | 2016-08-17
PREV> Cory LeClair: way. But certainly we try to work, particularly with the community center, parks and rec department, because those are our kids, whether they're in school, whether they're at the community center center, they're Claremont kids, there are kids, and we want to support our kids.
TEXT> And knowing that they're participating in an in a basketball practice means that they're in a safe, supportive environment doing something healthy and athletic. And that's great. And so we do everything that we can to work with the different organizations around. I think it is a worthy conversation to have. And perhaps this now addresses it with the idea of the nonprofit status and the waiver for some of the fees, because one of the things that we run into in the schools, which was a little bit of a hardship last year, is we have after school programing for our students. The bulk of that takes place in the cafeteria slash auditorium, slash gymnasium, which is the one multi-purpose space in all three elementary schools.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: But.

[8577-360] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; addressed 'Brian' | 2016-08-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: To some.
TEXT> Probably similar. But I think  this is for our students to learn on. Whereas those are production kitchens.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Perkins.

[8577-378] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member and SAU 6 Chair (superintendent: 'Becky' | 2016-08-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: there's a possibility to do both things. To Becky's point, you know, because the same thing, you've got your food service, people in your high school kitchen, and you don't want that disrupted when they come in the next day and are ready to prepare.
TEXT> I would like to clearly state that  I have no. I think that the students and the kids are number one in all of this, that all school scheduling has to look at before anything can be rented out. It's not like we're going to, like you say, have a secretary. Oh, yeah. That's available. No way. I'm just saying that there during vacations, during summer, that type of thing I think is when this could be used during the school year, I would think that someone would very critically look at the available space before anything was rented out. Checking with principals, checking with calendars, everything.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Right? Well, with culinary, I know, I know with our center, they'll be they'll be prepping today for tomorrow's class. And so, yeah, having someone come in that night when

[8577-379] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (business administrator: 'what Chris | 2016-08-17
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: during vacations, during summer, that type of thing I think is when this could be used during the school year, I would think that someone would very critically look at the available space before anything was rented out. Checking with principals, checking with calendars, everything.
TEXT> Right? Well, with culinary, I know, I know with our center, they'll be they'll be prepping today for tomorrow's class. And so, yeah, having someone come in that night when the kids are working on a project for tomorrow, there's a lot of prep that goes on all week long. So.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Michelle.

[8577-386] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Michelle' [524] and ' | 2016-08-17
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> However, during the the school season, absolutely disagree with any of it being used for outside it being a classroom. Because if you've got a teacher who sets up a plan and has X, Y, and Z, and the kids get it made, and even accidentally somebody who doesn't know something is in that kitchen renting it and hits something, or move something or take something that's a child's grade, whatever. It's just too much of a headache.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's a good point.

[8577-389] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Michelle' [524] and ' | 2016-08-17
PREV> Chris Irish: Yeah.
TEXT> Whereas everything else is is not accessible with children. It's not the children themselves. It's a it's a adult thing. This is the kids classroom.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And there could be a challenge with supplies that are in the in the kitchen as well. Something gets used. Yeah.

[8577-404] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [16-28]; principal call | 2016-08-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well, I can tell.
TEXT> You that if you look on page three of four on the policy  second paragraph, it talks about when the facilities are used for food service. One or more of the lunch workers must be on duty in order to ensure proper use. There's also a portion here that any any school equipment, whether it be chalk, paper, anything that is not to be touched. So, you know, these are the understandings that, any organization has and have agreed to. And I think to Becky's point, if you look on page 4 or 4, the building principal has to sign off. Yeah. And no one's going to be using any school facility without the building principal knowing. Yes. That's okay. Nothing planned for the students. Nothing planned by another group. The same with the director of building grounds. Who will be insured? Who will ensure that the organization had proper insurance. So there are a lot of little check systems here. But this discussion is excellent.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Thank you. I'd really like to get as far as this kitchen here to be curious what Santo's opinion would be at all if he even thinks it's a Bible

[8577-575] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey Leclerc has do | 2016-08-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Perfect.
TEXT> Thank you. So, the other one that you are referencing on the radio, and I can forward you. I haven't actually heard it myself yet. So I was contacted by Vermont Public Radio at the August 3rd board meeting, which I was not able to attend. I believe Middleton shared with you that we did, in fact, receive the Nellie May Foundation Award, and we also received the next three year funding cycle for the McKinney Vento  federal dollars, which most of our federal dollars, our title one grants, our title two grants are Perkins money. Most of that is allocated based on a formula,  a McKinney Vento funding, which is targeting our homeless children and youth, is allocated on a competitive grant process. And so we actually have to apply for those federal dollars, and we are awarded  money based on the quality of our application. So, our ability to carry out the activities, we say we're going to do our,  our partnerships and the strength of our partnerships with our community, our matching funds and resources  and our poverty and homeless rates in our community.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And so we did apply for a slightly larger amount than we received the last three year cycle. And we did get a the McKinney Vento Award. So we receive

[8577-576] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey Leclerc has do | 2016-08-17
PREV> Cory LeClair: the quality of our application. So, our ability to carry out the activities, we say we're going to do our, our partnerships and the strength of our partnerships with our community, our matching funds and resources and our poverty and homeless rates in our community.
TEXT> And so we did apply  for a slightly larger amount than we received the last three year cycle. And we did  get  a the McKinney Vento Award. So we receive a $35,000 grant every year for three years.  And so Patrick O'Grady from the Valley News, I believe, was at the August 3rd meeting. He contacted Middleton and I. Afterward, I spoke with him. He did an article in the Valley News, which I think flagged vPro. And so they contacted me. And, today I've been playing phone tag with, channel five news out of Vermont around the same topic. So I don't say all those things because I want you to rent a media sources, but I say those things because this is a real problem in our community, and we are doing something about it with your support. And people are taking notice of that, that we're not just sitting back and letting things happen, but we're actually being proactive and taking a stand in and trying to help our children be more successful in our community. And that's something to be very proud of. And I'm excited to be part of that. And I feel very fortunate to be part of that.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So I want that message to continue to get out there to our community members and just to continue to ways awareness for this topic, because it's going to have

[8577-577] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey Leclerc has do | 2016-08-17
PREV> Cory LeClair: being proactive and taking a stand in and trying to help our children be more successful in our community. And that's something to be very proud of. And I'm excited to be part of that. And I feel very fortunate to be part of that.
TEXT> So I want that message to continue to get out there to our community members and just to continue to ways awareness for this topic, because it's going to have an impact around our entire community moving forward. So I don't know what News Channel five wants to talk about. We'll see. But I think it's important for you to continue to share the message around the work that we're doing and how we're able to help all of our kids be successful in our schools. And that's not always measured by an academic test score on that.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And I'm.

[8648-21] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; 'Michelle did ema | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: Second.
TEXT> Any other discussion?  All in favor?  I opposed. Thank you. And  as was mentioned, our student representative will be coming in as soon as she's done with her practice. So we'll move on to superintendents report. Thank you.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And good evening. I must share with you. I left the SC six administrative offices around 8:00 this morning and had to complete a responsibility and driving that time of

[8648-22] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Any other discussion? All in favor? I opposed. Thank you. And as was mentioned, our student representative will be coming in as soon as she's done with her practice. So we'll move on to superintendents report. Thank you.
TEXT> And good evening. I must share with you. I  left the SC six administrative offices around 8:00 this morning and had to complete a responsibility and driving that time of morning. I generally get drive to work when the high school students are at the bus stop, and I had the opportunity to see a half a dozen little girls standing up in straight line, like, make way for ducklings waiting for the bus and the smile on their faces with just a reminder about what we do in our profession. And also I, I shared it with all the principals today because I looked at these young ladies and just smiled, thinking about and they're going to our schools.  And  I just was excited for them and just pleased to be working with the teachers and administrators we do and the community relationships, because at the end of the day,  though I do answer to the school board, I really work for the students of our district, with all due respect.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That being said, I would like to share with you I received a letter and it's in your packet. From Norma Limoges, from the Saint Mary's parish. Wanted to extend

[8648-25] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Wow.
TEXT> Nice. One more example of of our students and our coaches and  our community working with each other, supporting each other.  I also put in your packet  a notice that went  home to,  middle school students. Alice 3D animation programing  opportunity for middle school students. I had a chance to meet last week with some new administrators at River Valley Community College. As you know, the president, Harry Smith, will be departing. There's going through some restructuring.  They have brought on some new administrators with that transition. But one of the things we talked about was increasing the connectivity between the Claremont School District and River Valley Community College, not just the high school, though. We have some work there, but also  the middle school and the elementary schools. So there is a commitment to increase that connectivity and become much more closely intertwined with each other. We've been working toward that, but you need to sustain consistency and leadership to keep that alive. So this particular  opportunity is for  middle school students.  It is likely to occur the last week in September or early October. So these times are not correct as they do some reorganization, but it will be an opportunity to to expose students to a community college or college environment, because that's part of this as well as provide students an opportunity.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And this is the beginning of what I hope will be a much stronger relationship. Alicia, Harvey Smith has been a great, great partner, and we have worked closely with

[8648-26] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: in September or early October. So these times are not correct as they do some reorganization, but it will be an opportunity to to expose students to a community college or college environment, because that's part of this as well as provide students an opportunity.
TEXT> And this is the beginning of what I hope will be a much stronger relationship.  Alicia, Harvey Smith has been a great, great partner,  and we have worked closely with River Valley, but with with what she started. And in the spirit of her  mindset, I certainly want to increase that and extend that, because the community college is a tremendous resource for the community at large. And we cannot work more closely together, and we have an opportunity to do that. So I look forward to that. And example in point,  the River Valley College administration made me aware, and I'm attending a meeting next month in Manchester  where we will explore increasing  our partnership,  with the connection between high schools, colleges and employers. And the theme is enabling students to earn associate degrees and obtain first in line opportunities for jobs. Let alone making them more career ready, as well as emphasizing the Stem skills. So there's more to this.  I do know that it is after the the IBM model, IBM P tech model, which basically creates this partnership between businesses, high schools and colleges, and not just for your college ready students, but really for all students, because we're not just talking about those who are going into the Stem field, but also about  the career ready skills as well.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So there'll be there'll be more information to that. And also there will be a press release coming out soon about Claremont Middle School. The middle school has launched a

[8648-94] Helen Costello | New Hampshire Food Bank, presenting the Children's Community Lunch pil | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anybody else? Close public comments and we'll go on to discussion items. New Hampshire Food Bank children's community program.
TEXT> Going to pass these out of using some talking points about the program. My name is Helen Costello from the New Hampshire Food Bank, and I'm here to give a brief report on the children's community lunch pilot program that we ran here in Claremont with the community this summer.  And we also have a couple of other folks with us who were part of our collaboration, Zadeh Eyes and Cindy Stevens from the Claremont Soup Kitchen. So they'll have a couple of brief, brief remarks. But I just want to say I'm really happy to be here. And thank you for giving me some time on your agenda tonight. The Children's Lunch program is a summer lunch program for children.  Any child in Claremont that would like to launch during When School's Out in the summertime  and the New Hampshire Food Bank made a connection with Claremont through  the vista that Bella, who worked with Claremont last last year. I met her about a year ago and she helped us with some introductions, and she introduced me to Corey LeClaire and to Zadie and to Cindy Stevens. And this Claremont soup kitchen is also a registered agency of the New Hampshire Food Bank. So we were familiar with with them and the Claremont community and the food needs, emergency food needs of residents in in Claremont.
NEXT> Helen Costello: So we opened for sites for feeding and, the and offered lunch at those sites every day this summer for 11 weeks for children who wanted to come get a

[8648-97] Helen Costello | New Hampshire Food Bank, presenting the Children's Community Lunch pil | 2016-09-21
PREV> Helen Costello: meals this summer. And in any our single high day, census, if you will, was 67 children among the four sites, we think that there may have been about 100 individual children throughout the summer that that took meals. Not every child came every day.
TEXT> And people may have been on vacation, or if some days were too hot to come out and people maybe didn't walk over to a site,  we count meals. That's what we're responsible for to USDA. We don't take names of children, so we so that's why we don't have a firm number of children, but we know how many meals we served each day and how to get a a  single high day number. We had over 38 volunteers who supervised at those sites, supervised the meals. Many of them were teachers and paraprofessionals from the schools, and they contributed over 370 volunteer hours throughout the summer to ensure that we would have safe delivery and implementation of the program for for the children during those 11 weeks. So I'm just going to wrap it up my piece of it by saying that we were really pleased with the results as a pilot project. We we named it the Children's Community Lunch Program to give it a friendlier name than USDA Summer feeding.
NEXT> Unidentified: And yeah.

[8648-102] Megan | Children's Community Lunch coordinator hired by the NH Food Bank (Cost | 2016-09-21
PREV> Megan: how can I help? So as Helen said, our planning does start now. Having gone this summer door to door, church to torch, store to store for various reasons, I've got to experience the response to our program, and it is truly, overwhelmingly so supportive.
TEXT> Our one people hesitate to take advantage of it  and for the kindest reason, because so many people don't want to take away from those that are more needy than themselves. And so our number one challenge is truly to change this in  our program. Success depends on the inclusion of all children in this program. Next year we're hoping to partner with multiple other entities in the community. I don't know who they'll be yet entirely. I've got some ideas, to come up with recreational activities to add in conjunction with. No, I don't know if I've mentioned Mister Helen, so,
NEXT> Unidentified: We'll talk about it later, but,

[8648-108] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you for your support. Any questions?
TEXT> A couple. So two, I guess two main questions. One one is about, so I heard about with the volunteers. So we how  what about student community service? Because I, I heard that, you know, we're getting a lot of faculty.
NEXT> Unidentified: But so.

[8648-113] Cindy Stevens | Managing Director, Claremont Soup Kitchen (self-identified [161]) | 2016-09-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: what we do, but I some of these programs I saw that they've been they, they seem very popular in Newport and it seems like it, it really kind of puts a good spirit into the relationship between the students and, you know, the issues.
TEXT> So just to touch base a little bit on that. My children go to Disney. So I  deal a lot with, Disney Arts School District. And we've actually done a few,  a few things with, with them and I do we did reach out to some of the other, some of the other schools as well. We tried to involve them a little more being my kids are there that we did Thanksgiving food drive, so they brought in. In addition, we had them for Thanksgiving do placemats. All the schools had the kids make placemats to bring in. And at Christmas time they came in and decorated our Christmas tree. So we're trying to to involve them a little more. And that was one of the suggestions that I had, is I don't know how many times my kids come home with their folder and it's mommy, look at my paper, mommy, look at my paper, mommy, look at my paper. So that was one of my suggestions. Let's let's get it home with the kids as often as we can. Not just the email blast. You know, sometimes I think the kids need to see that to involve them and, you know, let them take the lead a little bit on it. I know my son goes to school and talks about the soup kitchen like it's the best restaurant in town.
NEXT> Cindy Stevens: In fact, it's to the like, I, I actually go into the school and I don't know how many kids say you're the woman from the restaurant and it's great.

[8648-117] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of pledge, ayes, seconds and brief acknowledgem | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anything else.
TEXT> I just. Want on behalf of the school district in the name you give me. The kids. Kids, right? That's right.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's amazing work. And yeah, we look forward to seeing what we can do, what you can do next summer as well.

[8648-125] Marian | Student representative, Stevens High School senior and field hockey pl | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: Hello. So.
TEXT> This is the first email from Mr.. Cherry. And he said Maple Avenue opened this year with the Meet the Teacher night before school started. Very successful event. Teachers want to continue it for next year. Mabel Avenue also opened the year with a brand new schedule that includes an extra recess for all students, 45 minute specials and rotating lunch recess period. Three new teaching positions Courtney Woods, special education teacher Wanda Clark music, and Judy Wood self-contained program. Big article published in the Valley News and needs to grab out our Children's Literacy Foundation Award. Over 200 new books giveaway for K through three third grade students. Our theme for the year is engagement, engagement through data, engagement of parents and community, engagement of curriculum, and engagement through climate and culture. Our new roof is spectacular  and our new phone and intercom system is also greatly appreciated. We. We are having grade five students doing morning announcements every day, and there's more to follow on that.  And then  from Miss Barry at the high school, let me open this. This morning, six very excited students in Stephen's High School Life Skills Program participated in their first session of therapeutic course. Back at Full Circle Farm in Newport. The students will be going for 1.5 hours each Wednesday for the next five weeks.
NEXT> Marian: The students are able to have this experience because of the money received from the Claremont Savings Bank Foundation. The Life skills staff are hoping to put together a slideshow

[8648-126] Marian | Student representative, Stevens High School senior and field hockey pl | 2016-09-21
PREV> Marian: open this. This morning, six very excited students in Stephen's High School Life Skills Program participated in their first session of therapeutic course. Back at Full Circle Farm in Newport. The students will be going for 1.5 hours each Wednesday for the next five weeks.
TEXT> The students are able to have this experience because of the money received from the Claremont Savings Bank Foundation. The Life skills staff are hoping to put together a slideshow at the end of the experience and present the slide to show to the school board. Rick Brooks, the artistic editor for the Johnson's Corporation, visited Mrs. Carlson's yearbook production class to collaborate with the students to create the yearbook cover for this year's yearbook. Mr. Brooks works only with five public high schools in New Hampshire, Manchester Central, Trinity and West Pinkerton Academy and Stevens High School. As our editor, Mr. Brooks works mostly with the universities and colleges such as Boston College, Boston University, Harvard, MIT, University of Michigan, Syracuse, and University of Pittsburgh, and private high schools like Brewster Academy,  Saint Paul's, and Exeter Academy. So for him to visit our high school and collaborate with us on the cover, it's humbling and quite unique experience for the students working on the yearbook as they discuss the themes and visions for upcoming book. Miss Chase's honors of his class went to the middle school on Primary day to see how elections were done. We even made the cover of the e-ticket newspaper.
NEXT> Marian: And then for I just talked to teacher after school today and she created this program that really excites me, which is one of the reasons why I really wanted

[8648-127] Marian | Student representative, Stevens High School senior and field hockey pl | 2016-09-21
PREV> Marian: the students working on the yearbook as they discuss the themes and visions for upcoming book. Miss Chase's honors of his class went to the middle school on Primary day to see how elections were done. We even made the cover of the e-ticket newspaper.
TEXT> And then  for I just talked to teacher after school today and she created this program that really excites me, which is one of the reasons why I really wanted to come tonight. And so Nancy Lewis is our New Hampshire history teacher. She also does civics, and I believe she does world history.  And she was just elected as a centennial educator at Saint-Gaudens. When working with Saint-Gaudens, they want to create more of a PlayStation type education, which, instead of being in front of the classroom all day telling kids what they need to learn, the kids experience it for themselves and they get hands on in the projects, was really creates an experience that kids love.  And so she brought back to the high school this plan, and in her NH history class, she has her kids divided up into groups where everyone has a role and they each adopt a Civil War soldier about the soldier.
NEXT> Marian: They do extensive research and create a biography about them, and then present it to the class and to the middle schoolers. What's the best part about this is they're

[8648-182] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: five. It's on writing. And if you go on to the website, if I'm a grade four teacher, I will know that in my grade my students are expected to have this is a will do I continue so 45 minute writing block a day.
TEXT> So no matter what school I go to school in, and no matter who my grade for a teacher or grade five teacher is, that's an expectation. Grades K to three will have at least 30 minutes continuous writing. And then it goes on to some more details, such as teach writing every day using the writers workshop model,  teach all writing units, full units and many units. Follow writing, pacing guide and score assessments with the new writing rubric. So there is cross braid and cross district continuity, and we're able to monitor the growth of our students and adjust accordingly. So this is an example. And without this information,  teachers are handicapped because if you have a textbook, you have a 200 page book. If you're expected to go to page one and follow that as if you're reading a novel, you may use that as the curriculum. A textbook is not the curriculum, a textbook is a resource. And if we don't have that clarity, if teachers do not understand or  not have not been clarified with them as far as expectations, what do we want a student to know and be able to do? We can grade for math or in grade seven writing. If that isn't clear, that it's really up to the teacher and in some cases it may be spot on.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: In other cases it won't be. And if it's not, it really isn't the teacher's fault because clarity wasn't there. So in essence, whoops. So in essence, what we're talking

[8648-183] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: as expectations, what do we want a student to know and be able to do? We can grade for math or in grade seven writing. If that isn't clear, that it's really up to the teacher and in some cases it may be spot on.
TEXT> In other cases it won't be. And if it's not, it really isn't the teacher's fault because clarity wasn't there. So in essence, whoops. So in essence, what we're talking about is district wide agreement involving academic expectations that focus on instructional practices and student learning. So we are you've seen this model before. This diagram attributes of a high performing school districts where you see full day kindergarten, grade five, grade 6 to 8, 9 to 12, and how they're connected. That's a critical piece. That's a critical, critical piece. We oftentimes think that, well, if the schools in the same community.
NEXT> Unidentified: Then all the schools are identical.

[8648-187] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: With.
TEXT> Their own administrations. And this is still again, it's a work in progress. You go on the website, it's not all complete, but this is unprecedented and very, very necessary. I also want to share with you, and I talked a little bit about this at the essay, you six school board meeting a week or two ago, that we have identified academic achievement goals for 1617. There will be presentations by the administration and the teachers on these throughout the year. One of our goals is 100% of the students will demonstrate measurable growth reading, writing and math. Measurable growth. That means where the student is now in the fall, and then where that student is in January, and where that student is in the spring.  Our goal is  growth. And goal, academic achievement. Goal number two, in reading and in mathematics, we will be using assessments I ready, which will be on the school board docket in the near future to explain this as well as new or map testing will have in the fall, the winter and spring. All students will have assessments in the fall, in the winter, in the spring, those assessments are not going to be to judge the student, they're going to be to inform instruction, and they're going to be able to demonstrate where the needs are and then to show growth.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And then we're going to be publicly discussing this to the boards and publicly explaining, we're not going to compare one teacher to the other, one school to the other.

[8648-188] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: assessments in the fall, in the winter, in the spring, those assessments are not going to be to judge the student, they're going to be to inform instruction, and they're going to be able to demonstrate where the needs are and then to show growth.
TEXT> And then we're going to be publicly discussing this to the boards and publicly explaining, we're not going to compare one teacher to the other, one school to the other. We're not comparing schools. We're talking about our students  and how they are demonstrating growth. And in. Academic achievement goals. The percentage students demonstrating measurable growth growth in grades one through five. We are looking 70% in math and 80% in reading will be demonstrating measurable growth in grades 6 to 8, 85% math and reading, and in grade 9 to 1080%. These marks. These targets were by the administration the summer. We have shared this with the faculty. We are committed to work toward assisting our students to demonstrate this growth, and it's going to be by ongoing measurements, which we're going to be reporting out. And then in the case of writing, we have established saw six writing rubrics. And our goal is by utilizing the rubrics as well as monitoring the students who increase one proficiency level by pre and post writing assessments, will be able to demonstrate to you  our growth in writing. But again, it the growth in writing is going to be clarified where we are, where our students are, and where we want our students to be in a particular grade level.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Because those exemplars or those bars are now established. And though and by the way, if we don't meet those percentiles, as we hope we do, that's not a bad

[8648-189] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: writing assessments, will be able to demonstrate to you our growth in writing. But again, it the growth in writing is going to be clarified where we are, where our students are, and where we want our students to be in a particular grade level.
TEXT> Because those exemplars or those bars are now established. And though and by the way, if we don't meet those percentiles, as we hope we do, that's not a bad thing. At least we are striving for that. And who knows, we might even surpass that. But the goal is now. And one administrator said publicly to her teachers before school started, I've been in this district over 20 years. This is the first time we have goals like this, and we have crossed district goals and they're measurable, and we're going to report out on those measures. And to me, it's much more meaningful than a kneecap or smarter balance.  It's ongoing. Its ongoing in the  fall, fall in the winter and the spring. Same group of students in that year, not once a year. And get it several months later. And in writing in grade one through five, 100% growth, measurable growth. And in grades 6 to 8, we expect 85% will show measurable growth. 85% of the students will show growth measurable by the rubrics that we will be using, not made by individual teachers, but agreed to and established by the teachers. By the way, this isn't being done to them. They did it working with the administration. We've agreed to this at the high school.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We're going to be focusing this year on having students get to school, get to school on time and be in school. We are looking for a 93% rate of

[8648-204] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: With excused. Yeah. Good point.
TEXT> And the other the other goal that I would like to share with you is this with Stevens High School, we are looking at 75% of our high school students will apply be accepted to a post-secondary. A post-secondary does not necessarily mean a four year university, but the goal is even before they integrate. Nine we have been working with our students and exposing them to what the opportunities are and how they get to those opportunities. So it's not a discussion that begins when you're a sophomore, a junior. Because in many cases, high school or post-secondary education isn't discussed very much in the home. In some homes, it's not a it's not anyone's fault. It's just not part of the discussion. It so oftentimes it doesn't seem to be accessible. And the other part of the 75% of these students will attend.  Now, right now we're in the about 60% range. If I recall from last year, our goal is to increase that. The goal is by increasing it. The intent is that students have been able to understand the importance of. To be successful, one needs more than just the high school. There needs to be additional training, initial additional skill.
NEXT> Unidentified: Development.

[8648-208] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris Irish: the 10th and 11th grade and it's too late. So I love this one, and I would love to see us take that one step further to make this somehow staple it on the guidance counselors foreheads that this is what we're trying to do.
TEXT> Well, let me just respond to that. I see this to be elementary school, middle school and high school and not just guidance.  Yeah, it's really all of ours. And when Pat Barry brought the class of 2016 with their regalia through the elementary schools, in the middle school, there was a message there. There was a message. And that was step one. And when our students were at the middle school and in the high school are being exposed to post-secondary opportunities not as an innocuous but ongoing. And so we talk about that course at River Valley Community College. That's one example of that, exposing our students to a college environment. You notice that River Valley is not coming to us. Our students are going there, but this isn't going to be an overnight, and it's going to take time to have students be exposed to those opportunities above and beyond.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Just I have that data.

[8648-213] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of pledge, ayes, seconds and brief acknowledgem | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I'd like to look into that more. I was doing that. We was beginning to do it in Massachusetts, and we used someone from Northeastern University down in bosses to help us aggregate that, because we sometimes will lose contact with some of.
TEXT> Our students.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But to your point, Brant Tony Wagner of Harvard University, I'm really a foundation in instruction and effective teaching and learning. He said that one of the greatest measures of

[8648-214] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: Our students.
TEXT> But to your point, Brant Tony Wagner of Harvard University, I'm really a foundation in instruction and effective teaching and learning. He said that one of the greatest measures of a school district is what happens to the students after they graduate. Yeah. What are they doing a year from now? Two years from now, three years from now, if we can track them, that will talk a lot about us, because it's not the student. Success is more than just the students work ethic. It's also about their preparedness. Now, it's not that simple. But your points very well taken.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah, that's.

[8648-221] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris Irish: school. We end up, you got a bunch of alumni sitting right here. We did, did or didn't go to school, whatever. I think I think that's a great concept to get back on to is, you know, four years later. How did we do?
TEXT> I want to, you know, I want to I'd like to have a conversation with Pat Berry and her staff and start that, I know districts have tried it in Massachusetts. We are starting to, but we needed access to the students, permission to the students to be able to follow them, because once they leave us, we don't necessarily have contact to them, is maintaining that connectivity is important.
NEXT> Chris Irish: That's what the alumni association can come in handy.

[8648-226] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Milton.
TEXT> Oh, just just, on that last one, originally I was going to address that second goal, but, this, what's something I liked what Brett had to say. I guess it relate here, but the the one, the one that 75% the attending. So I guess this is kind of related even to what I was thinking with Brett's question, which I think is excellent. But almost to me it requires a study because there could be so many variables. So I like I heard my understanding is, if you look at the general, the national dropout rate, not dropout rate, but the number of students to go to take, said in major and engineering will often switch majors or, that they find that like half of them will often can switch majors. And I don't know how we have this data other than maybe just tracking our students, but the students that have kind of taken like our machine or machine, machine machinist course, we they have not those who have gone on to study engineering have not dropped out. That could be like that could be one factor that but there can also be a lot of variables why some students are not completing courses, for example.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: But I guess there similar to I do we know that that second goal like is I, I don't know what data we have, but It seems to me that

[8648-227] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: course, we they have not those who have gone on to study engineering have not dropped out. That could be like that could be one factor that but there can also be a lot of variables why some students are not completing courses, for example.
TEXT> But I guess there similar to I do we know that that second goal like is I, I don't know what data we have, but It seems to me that one could be really challenging because we may not less. We are confident, we know that the difference between the 60% attending and a possible 75 is more, is more a kind of a choice, as opposed to like, it seems like the first one we know we can kind of achieve within the district. But if there were issues of money, family, other factors, I mean, it seems like there could be factors that that might be beyond our control. I don't know, I don't know what we've kind of learned about our  students, about why they're not going, does that make sense? I guess I'm trying to say, I would say like, I, I want to make sure like, yes, we have like, if we believe that we have the ability, we know that with our students that we have the ability to influence  that to 75%. Because I don't know.  I don't know why they don't. We may not be able to control their financial situation.
NEXT> Unidentified: Or.

[8648-234] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Yeah. And and that kind of gets back into that guidance council like ways in which we can increase.
TEXT> But you know, I want to thank you for that question because what you're what you have done unintentionally has introduced the next end of this presentation, which basically is talking about a book written by Robert Putnam, The American Dream in Crisis. And the whole theme behind this is that in our country, everyone should have equal opportunity to get ahead. In truth, that's not the case.  And you can see the net worth of the college educated household, what's happened there in, in the from 89 to 2013 versus the network net worth of a high school educated house household. Now, this speaks about the importance of training, the importance of education. But what's also interesting is that we have a great struggle, the whole Pygmalion effect. Well, you know, the students, the students, we look at the student, we see certain variables about that student. And we may unintentionally, lower our expectations. Teachers expectations, though, and how we deal with our students is a critical factor, in many cases  more powerful than the students parents. More than 50% of academic outcomes stem from what the teacher does.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's how important that profession is. But the reason I bring this up is that our expectations for students and the effectiveness of the teaching has a major, major difference.

[8648-235] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: about that student. And we may unintentionally, lower our expectations. Teachers expectations, though, and how we deal with our students is a critical factor, in many cases more powerful than the students parents. More than 50% of academic outcomes stem from what the teacher does.
TEXT> That's how important that profession is. But the reason I bring this up is that our expectations for students and the effectiveness of the teaching has a major, major difference. But this whole concept of classism of unintentionally, I mean, when I was a science teacher at a middle school level, I had four groups and the four group were building groupings and unintentionally, but I did it. I expected a different level of achievement from one group versus the other. And though we know that students who have academic challenges may not be in an Advanced Placement course, but we have to be sure that we have maximize their potential. And the the dominating factor here are the teachers and their expectations.  So the most important factor we have is our expectations and how we work with our students, not just the guidance counselors, but our teachers. And not just at the high school, at the middle school and the elementary school. And that's where that cross grade connectivity comes in. And that discussion that it's not a high school issue. It's a cross district peak to 12 issue.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: What teachers do each day is so important. And we have in our district so very, very effective educators. And so our goal in five years, we want to have

[8648-236] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: but our teachers. And not just at the high school, at the middle school and the elementary school. And that's where that cross grade connectivity comes in. And that discussion that it's not a high school issue. It's a cross district peak to 12 issue.
TEXT> What teachers do each day is so important. And we have in our district so very, very effective educators. And so our goal in five years, we want to have and show to you publicly five years of measurable student growth in reading, writing and math each year.  Our goal. This is not just a one year shot in the arm. We're going to have a five year  goal of measurable student growth. And in five years,  based on our measurable growth, we want to be recognized as one of the top districts in New Hampshire because of our student growth, because of where our students have been improving, again, not measured by a state assessment once a year,  but by ongoing student growth. That's where we are, and that's where we're heading, is an ambitious it depends how you talk to. But again, what are the expectations. And I'm confident because our faculty and the administration we have in this team and having these goals versus we're just not doing our job, we're doing our job, but we have targets. And what's going to be critical is how we respond to our students when they're having difficulties or when they need support. So. That's where we are, and we are moving toward excellence, and we're moving towards excellence because of our teachers effort.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If not the administration, if the administration and teachers working together, academic achievement goals, pretest and post tests, where is a student in the fall? Where will the student be

[8648-254] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: Absolutely right.
TEXT> Absolutely right. But you know it's. It's I don't want to I said this to the faculty. And one of the things that we need to to understand  when we talk about FCU six, Claremont Cornish and Unity  is that we have different demographics than another community, but  we can't let that allow us to take a step back and lower our expectations, because where a child lives should not thereby be an indicator as to what we expect from that child. And we want to be able to have goals, and we want to be able to have ongoing  measurements of of the children and opportunities to intervene throughout the course of the year. That's where we're going, and it's not going to be a one year shot. It's going to be a multi year. But we will see. We will see in statewide assessments a difference. I know we. Will because we have that focus and that commitment and we're going to be public about it and we're going to be discussing.
NEXT> Unidentified: It.

[8648-259] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent defers to 'Corey LeCla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: are in our instruction. When there wasn't a clearly articulated curriculum to begin with that was aligned K or pre-K all the way up through grade 12, we've taken, some massive leaps and bounds in the last 18 months or so related to our curriculum.
TEXT> And so now we can say  we have a writing curriculum in place for grades K through eight. We have benchmark measures that we've created that we can report out on to all of you and demonstrate progress with student learning  in a meaningful way. And we had not been able to do that before.  And so as some of these things that are really foundational come to fruition over, you know, over the past 18 months and over the next 36 months, we're going to see a difference on those state performance assessments, the state, tests like smarter balance that we have not seen in the past. And so is there a silver bullet to all of this? No, it's going to be one step at a time getting there. But we're also involved with conversations at the Department of Ed level around equity and how we're measuring schools and how we're measuring performance. Because when our students, you know, we have eight kids in a first grade class who come in at the first percentile  and the 85th percentile is considered proficient, that's a lot of movement that those kids have to have.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And if we move them to the 55th percentile, that's nearly unheard of. However, we're still deemed failing because they haven't reached the 85th percentile. And so that's the conversation

[8648-260] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent defers to 'Corey LeCla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: and how we're measuring performance. Because when our students, you know, we have eight kids in a first grade class who come in at the first percentile and the 85th percentile is considered proficient, that's a lot of movement that those kids have to have.
TEXT> And if we move them to the 55th percentile, that's nearly unheard of.  However, we're still deemed failing because they haven't reached the 85th percentile. And so that's the conversation that we're engaged with, preliminarily, anyway, with the Department of Ed to say, look, we need to look at these measures differently because we are getting knocked on Zillow because of our state performance. But think about the growth that our students have demonstrated in the work that our teachers have put in to get our students to move forward. It's a whole different conversation. And so it's a work in progress, and you can support that by having those conversations in the community around, okay. So, you know, let's not look at only proficiency preferences. Proficiency is important. But let's not look at only that. Let's also look at what the assessment is going to be telling us this year related to growth, what our writing prompts or in-house writing assessments look like, and talk about things in different ways to reshape how we're thinking about our our schools.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So when you look at this goal, you see Stevens High School. This is a K to 12 goal. It doesn't start in grade nine. But we're not going to

[8648-264] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers him 'to your poi | 2016-09-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: We don't yet.
TEXT> And when we do establish do we have some. Is is that going to be addressed I guess is my question as we as you kind of move forward with this, that, that every kid, every child going from second to third grade will be proficient and prepared. Is it going to be somewhat some, some course of remediation available for those that come up short? Because that's one of my big concerns, is that by just kind of pushing them along. Oh you did you you did great. You achieve a lot this year and you really progressed nicely. You're not up to par yet, but we're going to push you along. I don't I think that's a disservice to the child and that okay pushed them along and he's still in over his head. And so I just want to make sure that we've got some sort of remedial process in place that we can still grow. But I would, but we're also, you know, keeping keeping the student where they need to be so that they're prepared when they get to where they want to go.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So that's a recurring conversation to some degree. And I understand why.

[8648-278] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> This is this is a big picture.  And it may be ambitious, but it is about expectations, and it is about the district being joined together across district wide and measuring and reporting out to all of you and the community.  Because we believe this is going to work, it's not going to be a quick fix. It's going to take some time. But the community needs to know what we're doing and why and how our children are changing and be involved to accessing what is  going on in our schools.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: I guess on this, the only thing I, I get concerned because.

[8648-287] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: About it.
TEXT> But everything I hear. But but you know what? I'm hearing the exact same thing from from parents in our district about their their discomfort, their discomfort with the number of of. The, the, the ongoing reading assessments and everything and and saying that it's it's, you know, the is seeing that their child's is not is used to kind of like reading is kind of not enjoying. Honestly from what I saw in the classroom, it's it's changed. You know, I found that the. Again, this is high school. But I took a lot of students, worked with a lot of students that were not  doing well in mainstream schools, I didn't focus. All I know is focused on  what on the standards, the curriculum and the instruction and focus on the quality of of really meaningful instruction with reading and ongoing practice in the writing, not compartmentalizing anything. And guess what? Every single one of these students improved elite one, two or more grade levels in reading and writing.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: How do you measure that?

[8648-299] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; 'Michelle did ema | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: What what I, what I've.
TEXT> What I've gathered. And, you know, I've been on the board a little bit longer. What I, what I'm gathering about what we're doing is this is to help the teachers with their instruction. It's not just a measure of being able to see what's happening with our kids. It's also for those teachers to see what's happening with their kids.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: But they can do that with that. I think without the we keep talking about accountability. And I think.

[8648-311] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: Important for.
TEXT> No, I'm coming from this. I'm coming from the learning side. This is also about the children.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I mean, I.

[8648-322] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers him 'to your poi | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris Irish: And now it's done. Move on. That's a great I mean.
TEXT> I think and I think we have to be mindful of that because, because we have to make sure that our assessments are diagnostic. And because for, you know, why are we doing this? So we can see how to help the student, not get to the point where we're, you know, we're just testing for the because it's fun to test and like, wow, look how smart our kids are. Because we do so great on these tests. And I see that test culture backfiring. But I really think we're at the point that these are more of a diagnostic. Where are we at? And then from that, you know, comparing comparing trips on the diagnostic computer, you can see that your car is getting better because you know, your fuel, the oil ratio is getting much better and you know, your output exhaust and all that crap.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Okay. Now compare. Yeah, but but I'm just saying you lost me. I'm saying you.

[8648-327] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent defers to 'Corey LeCla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: conversation, and that is we have consciously eliminated assessments that we have been given giving in the past when we don't have a specific purpose for them, because we understand that there is a significant amount of assessment and excess of assessment, if you will.
TEXT> However, we are switching one of the reasons we made the switch from the Map assessment to the I ready assessment this year is because of its diagnostic value more than the eye than the Map assessment was able to give us before, because we don't want to over assess by any means. Nobody wants to over assess, but we need to have  clear, specific data at the skill level in order to meet students needs, where they are, and help move them forward, and then know if what we are doing is actually having that impact to have students learning progress. So I would encourage you to check out the curriculum website and to see the areas on there that have been  developed. Some of it is more than others, for sure. I think that. Kathleen can be texting me and yelling at me in a moment if I screw up, but, I know that their writing curriculum is. On there. I thought it was on their see, I think because of my access.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[8648-357] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; 'Michelle did ema | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: It's an autopsy.
TEXT> It was an it's an autopsy. It's the data comes way too late. There's no correction that's able to be to be made. And, you know, I think, you know, obviously was something that we had to use is mandated. But to be able to use that data as any sort of guidance on what we teach our kids, it was it was useless. So I'm glad to see that, that we are, you know, as we go, the kids are the teachers. The kids are able to see what's happening. Teachers are able  to figure out where they where certain kids need need extra help. And I'm very thankful.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: For it. And I think if parents have questions, it's perfectly appropriate and encouraged for them to to contact and connect with the teacher and, and ask those questions. And

[8648-359] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I do like what Chris said' | 2016-09-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: questions, it's perfectly appropriate and encouraged for them to to contact and connect with the teacher and, and ask those questions. And if we don't have an answer, we're certainly going to look for the answer and figure it out together. But have the conversation.
TEXT> What I like about this to compare to the knee cap days, because I always thought they were way past useless, is there's accountability built in here. There's cooperation built in here, there's ownership built in. Everything with every player involved is part of this. It's a legitimate benchmark. And, you know, there's a that's why the kneecaps were useless. Nobody cared. You know, connect the dots I that's just the way it was. This is something. And what I like most of all about this is this is about Claremont. This is what I see now. This is the beginning  of our identity that we're trying to get to, but it's also the identity we are now going to have that's based on us. I don't really have an interest in the other districts. I don't really care what anybody else is doing. I really don't, because we're Claremont. We have our own unique foibles. Whatever you want to call them, we need to focus on what's best for us and not try to compare or anything to any other district  I like. I love we're going with this.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I think it's interesting. You know, we've been putting a lot of pieces together since I've been on the board and and just trying to, you know, build a lot

[8648-464] Chris | SAU 6 administrator reporting on out-of-district special education pla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris Irish: Good.
TEXT> Out of district. I told you guys we would. I keep coming back and giving you updates on sort of where we are with things. So since the last time I gave you an update, we've had a little bit of movement. We've actually been able to bring, two students from out of district placement back to Stevens High School. Oh, great.  And the reason I believe that that  has been successful is because we've had the high school very much involved  in that process. So a lot of this, a lot of the groundwork was laid over the summer, so we just didn't bring them back. We went to several meetings. High school, as part of that process, will interview the student, bring the families in, look at their eyes, look at what their goals and objectives are,  and then ultimately make a determination as a as a high school. I believe that, you know, yes or no, we can meet the student's needs and we will make the recommendation to bring them back. And at the same time, those students are also sort of maybe interviewing at other places as well. So we've had some success with bringing back to, to to to inform our district placement at the high school.
NEXT> Chris: So we feel really good about that. And I think what we really feel good about is having the high school folks involved on the front end of all of

[8648-466] Chris | SAU 6 administrator reporting on out-of-district special education pla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris: that happens throughout the six organization. We take, you know, we take these decisions about bringing kids back or having to, find placements for kids to go pretty, pretty seriously. So we've had two successes at Stevens. We've had one success for, Claremont Middle School.
TEXT> So we've had three. Been able to bring three back for the beginning of the school year.  At the same time, you know, we talked a lot about we have families who will just we'll move into the community and then move into the community. And their their kids are already in out of district placements. And we become and they continue to do that. So, we talked a little bit about that the last time.  Since then we've also the pendulum swings back the other way to this is a sort of a give and a take. And since then we've had two families actually move out. So this is a this is an ongoing ebb and flow. And those two students who actually have moved out  were residentially placed students as well. They weren't de placement. They were residentially placed statements where the  families moved to other communities and then other districts and now the district of liability for those kids. So we've had some we've had those, those things happening. And currently we have one, one elementary student who were in the process of trying to find them a placement now and again, these are, these are decisions that that get happened,  by a multidisciplinary team. With your IEP team,  you have, counselors, clinicians, whoever, all based on on the best available, the kids.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: The child's need.

[8648-468] Chris | SAU 6 administrator reporting on out-of-district special education pla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: The child's need.
TEXT> Based on the child's need. It's based on safety. Can we keep, not only the student safe, but can we keep all the other students in the school safe? And that's really that's that's the first that's the first cut. And then and then ultimately, can we can we meet their, therapeutic  and academic needs?  And the best way to sort of describe it, we and we, we wrestle with this, decisions and they shouldn't be easy decisions. And, can we contain kids as opposed to can we meet their needs that they need very, very badly? So the question, the answer and some of them, sure, we contain kids, but we really meeting their therapeutic needs that they that they truly need. And and sometimes those are the things that sort of help us through and making some of those decisions. So that's sort of the update of where, where we're at. So I think we're feeling we're feeling good that we have a pretty solid process in place for bringing kids back and and ultimately for when we have to make the decision for when kids go out and they're not they're not easy decisions. And these aren't decisions that get made by me  sitting in my office. These are these these happen throughout the organization.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So I want to I was curious, I know I thought a couple of years ago where I remember we begin again talking about, Working towards a kind of a

[8648-476] Chris | SAU 6 administrator reporting on out-of-district special education pla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris Irish: Oh, yeah.
TEXT> Another program, which is. Which is why we were able to bring one of those kids back from out of different placement who actually went into the to the alt program. I think what we have been working on and and Patrick, this is I think this a lot of this work started before you got on the board is, is we started to look at various properties around Claremont to ultimately house that kind of a program for for high school kiddos. And we looked really hard. We looked at five, six, seven different properties to go with the the yellow house, and we looked all where it got. It spilled over cost wise. As we. Could get a really great price on a on a number of properties in and around Stevens High School or become or became  over the top was  the amount of money it was going to cost to get that building renovated up to Ed code.  And that's where it, it got into. Yeah. Which is not going to make sense.
NEXT> Chris: So, you know, I had come at the beginning of my ten year last year and said, you know, we've got this all program. And the litmus test was, are

[8648-477] Chris | SAU 6 administrator reporting on out-of-district special education pla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris: around Stevens High School or become or became over the top was the amount of money it was going to cost to get that building renovated up to Ed code. And that's where it, it got into. Yeah. Which is not going to make sense.
TEXT> So,  you know, I had come at the beginning of my ten year last year and said, you know, we've got this all program. And the litmus test was, are we able to bring kids back and we able to bring them back safely and meet their needs. And I think we've got our first, we're starting to see that with the ability to bring one, one kiddo back, two, two kiddos back from at Stevens, for this year. And those those are recommendations that I didn't make. The high school made those recommendations to bring those kids back.  So that's where  getting those, getting everybody involved in the conversation about about these guys, ultimately, what I love to see that all program be in its own space. Absolutely. Absolutely. And we'll continue to try to look for an alternative. But, we got pretty discouraged fast when we learned. You know, I may be able to get a property for 60, $70,000, but it's going to cost me 300 to get it up to code.  And, and then all the other stuff that goes into that. So, yeah, we'll continue to look for, for solutions for that.
NEXT> Chris: Another another piece is, you know, I can I continue to look for ways to maybe partner with other area to, to do that. And, and at this point, it

[8648-492] Chris | SAU 6 administrator reporting on out-of-district special education pla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris Irish: Same boat.
TEXT> Yeah. And one of the issues is, is for us in Sullivan County. Here is anyway, we got left in the north. You got keen to the south and and here we are sort of in here and these, date let's say day programs. That will meet a lot of these needs for some of these kids are 60, 75 minute ride each each way. And so  not only are you finding a placement, then you have to find transportation. And so there's a there's a lot of there's a lot of logistics that, that go into this to sort of set this up.
NEXT> Chris Irish: As the conversation ever come up. Just the thought of a feasibility study of of a account? Not I don't want to say County, because I'm not limited county, but

[8648-504] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris Irish: Yeah, yeah. I.
TEXT> I, I agree with Chris. Like if, if we're, we're, you know, focusing in Sullivan County literally  or. Yeah. Between that that you know just in court just incorporating  an area that works with between Springfield, Claremont, Newport, I mean, and then because because yeah, it yeah, I've, I've had that thought, thought for a long time. That just seems like what to do. I mean, to do something that, that would, that would be, you know, effective not only for the students that but also be something that would be feasible. We're trying to create like kind of a, you know, a small size kind of, you know, specialized school. And it's it, you know, has to be something, you know, we can't funded ourselves. We need to have kind of almost a it it just needs to be done a larger scale to do it publicly.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right? Right.

[8648-512] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Good a policy first read a condom distribution policy.
TEXT> We had before you were five policies. And and the first is a condom distribution policy. This is a work in progress. It represents a year's worth of work by the Youth Risk behavior Study group I. In September 10th, 2015, I gave you a multi-page memo about what we were going to do with this data was basically looking at the letter. Letter. After reviewing several years of use youth Risk Behavior survey data that illustrates our students choices, we have brought forth this policy. We have followed suit with the Hanover School District up north of us. Who implemented this policy? Several months ago. We also have done some research working with some local agencies. Our goal is to support students whose parents give permission. So before you was the first read, I will share one thing with you about this on the on the the policy itself.  I want to do some work on number three. D is entitled under the law to give consent for himself herself.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's too vague. I believe I have the answer to that. But I don't like the wording of that. It's too vague. It's it's not crisp, but the the intent

[8648-513] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: permission. So before you was the first read, I will share one thing with you about this on the on the the policy itself. I want to do some work on number three. D is entitled under the law to give consent for himself herself.
TEXT> That's too vague. I believe I have the answer to that. But I don't like the wording of that. It's too vague. It's it's not crisp, but the the intent behind this is to be in partnership with the community and to address not only the issue of unwanted pregnancies, but also sexually transmitted diseases. But more importantly, and I put in front of you tonight, it's not just a matter of issuing a condom to a child or a student whose parents get permission, but it's also giving information. And that pamphlet is one example of the type of information that we would provide students, because it's very important that students be informed. And so again, this is the theme. I clearly want to be very open with the community and let parents understand exactly what this is. And it'll be a parent decision. Parents would email the school nurse at high school. If they don't have email, they would write a letter. If we do not hear from the parent, the student does not have access. So before you as the first read and it comes, I  have not done this alone. I worked with some medical professionals, working with our staff, doing a lot of editing and critiquing of this, and it's still a work in progress, but I'm pleased with the spirit behind it, which is to support our students, but also to be transparent with the community and let the parents be the deciding factor.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: A couple questions on it and thank you. And I and I liked it overall. Thank you. Once it was light, the Roman numeral three. Number number three. So that

[8648-539] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: All in favor. Aye. Opposed. Thank you.
TEXT> Gender and gender nonconforming. Students before he was as a third read, if you noticed in the Valley News earlier this month, Hanover recently passed theirs. The whole theme behind this is to protect the rights of all students, right?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I've been reading this and reading this, and this is a pretty important policy. And it's Middleton. I'm glad you just said what you just said, because you just

[8648-540] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - second cluster; its sentenc | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Gender and gender nonconforming. Students before he was as a third read, if you noticed in the Valley News earlier this month, Hanover recently passed theirs. The whole theme behind this is to protect the rights of all students, right?
TEXT> So I've been reading this and reading this, and this is a pretty important policy.  And it's Middleton. I'm glad you just said what you just said, because you just said what I was going to say. That it really is about all students safety and comfort and minimizing stigmatization of all students. So I'm going to read a sentence here and it says any student this is an F, by the way, I'm quoting on F. Any student who has a need or desire for increased increased privacy, regardless of the underlying reason, should be provided with a reasonable alternating alternative changing area, such as the use of a private area. Such as e.g. a nearby restroom stall,  so on and so forth, or a separate changing area. Now it goes again, e.g. and it's right under the F and draft, using the locker room that corresponds to their gender identity before or after other students. I'm going to propose that we take those parentheses out. And the reason for that is because I think all students should be afforded  that. So if we leave it as all any.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Student.

[8648-542] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - second cluster; its sentenc | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Student.
TEXT> Any student may enter these circumstances may ask for an alternative place to dress. Then I would suggest that any  getting down to the last I mean the last four sentences, any alternative arrangement should be provided in a way. Any additional. I would suggest adding any additional alternative arrangement for transgender students should be provided in a way that protects the student's ability to keep his or her transgender status confidential. My purpose here is that there may be some students who are not transgender  who are very uncomfortable with that situation, and I think if we change that language, it gives them the opportunity to opt out of the locker room. And I'm not sure how the board feels about that. I may be alone,  but, I think  there's a nuance there that I think that we're.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I would agree with that. I would agree.

[8648-590] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; 'Michelle did ema | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris Irish: So we can we can pretend that all we want, but the practical application is it's just not like it's just not the natural world we live in. And that's what concerns me with opening Pandora's box with this. And, you know, it is what.
TEXT> It is,  a Pandora's box. I think it I, I think we're we're validating and supporting our students.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I understand that, I totally understand that. But to me, there's always a practical consequence to these things.

[8648-610] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris Irish: Sport, but they shouldn't have to either. That's just reverse discrimination.
TEXT> That's if I may, I would just refer to the last page of this policy and look at the legal reference. If we go down the path and Chris, I respect what you're saying, but if we go down that path, you're, you're confronted with some very clear law. Just as we protect the rights of all students, everyone is entitled to a free and appropriate education. If we start to make judgments, we unintentionally have violated that right. I'm not sure it's our place to try to anticipate. What if?
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, then we have a policy at all. I understand that, but to the answer, well, it's not our place then we don't need a policy. Because if it's not

[8679-14] O'Brien | Student representative and Stevens High School senior class president  | 2016-10-05
PREV> O'Brien: these organizations, which is really awesome. I already testing is the next thing. I already testing has started at Stevens High School. It began on September 26th and will conclude on October 6th, with makeup sessions planned for October 7th, October 11th, and October 12th.
TEXT> All ninth and 10th graders are being tested in reading and mathematics. This is approximately 300 students in total. Some students are testing during  their English or Mathematics course. For those students who are not currently enrolled in an English or Mathematics course for September 1st, they are being tested during fourth block and flex sessions. I read testing is an adaptive assessment where students reach above, on or below grade level questions in both disciplines. This type of testing engines help to narrow in on students learning levels in reading and mathematics. Once all testing is completed, we will be working with staff to share results with students and families. I read, I read testing reports are aligned to the Common Core in reading and mathematics. Reports indicate where students have strengths and areas in which growth can occur. This information will be used to inform instruction and provide students with learning supports to improve targeted skills in areas of read and mathematics. It also general programs strengths and needs from a school wide curriculum view. Lastly, I will be used to measure Stevens High School performance against the  articulated academic achievement goal with 80% of all students will meet the growth targets.
NEXT> O'Brien: It's spirit season at Stevens High School. On Saturday, students will be dancing in the cafe until 1030. The theme for this semi-formal is Black Tie. Then on Tuesday, students

[8679-15] O'Brien | Student representative and Stevens High School senior class president  | 2016-10-05
PREV> O'Brien: areas of read and mathematics. It also general programs strengths and needs from a school wide curriculum view. Lastly, I will be used to measure Stevens High School performance against the articulated academic achievement goal with 80% of all students will meet the growth targets.
TEXT> It's spirit season at Stevens High School.  On Saturday, students will be dancing in the cafe until 1030. The theme for this semi-formal is Black Tie. Then on Tuesday, students will be showing their school spirit each day by dressing up in costume. Tuesday will be America Day, so put on your red, white and blue Wednesday. Find your doppelganger for Twins Day  on Thursday. Opposites Day and Friday is red and black day. This year we will have usual fun and games at the rally, but emphasize all the sports teams, clubs and extracurriculars as well. The last thing for tonight is we got an email from Daniel Cherry,  the principal at Maple Avenue School, and it stated Maple Avenue has the theme of engagement for the school year. One of our goals engaging with community and parents. With help from the PTO. Our first family night was a great success with over 75 people attending a movie night. We also had record sales from our first school. Last book fair on Friday. Ted Shy, the poetry Guy, will be presenting three assemblies to our students as part of our Children's Literacy Foundation grant.
NEXT> O'Brien: Our fifth graders have been doing morning announcements. It includes a welcome introducing themselves, telling the date and time. Then they recite the Pledge of Allegiance. Our math consultant, doctor

[8679-200] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'hearing from the chair and | 2016-10-05
PREV> Doug: to figure, I mean, I you know, Patty's two daughters both play at Saint Michael's, which is a, you know, a good Division two program. And, yeah, we have had a, athletes in the past. It would be. That'd be a good question for me.
TEXT> To as we go forward. I mean, I know we've got some future college football players in attendance tonight, so I think I'd really like to start knowing that what our kids are doing.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah, that.

[8679-291] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'the schedule that Bar | 2016-10-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: to talk to this committee about who we are as a school, what what do we want to celebrate? Because Peter Weaver, who is the chair of our committee and he's the assistant principal from Raymond, this is about the fifth NEA's visitation he's chaired.
TEXT> His approach to this is this is not a gotcha visit. This is not a what what does Stevens need to do to to to get better, although that is the purpose of Nyack overall. But it's really to celebrate who we are and what we do well and what to build upon. Which I was really thrilled after meeting with him that that's his take on all of this. So we're going to have students talk about the focus on school core values and beliefs and learning expectations. Our school community profile, the issues and challenges facing the school in light of the school's core values and beliefs, our critical strengths and needs. I was charged with writing a report based on all the work that the faculty did over the last year and a half to say based on that, these are our critical strengths, these are our critical needs. And from that was created a two and five year targeted plan of what we need, what we feel we need to work on. And that will tell them where we stand. The next three days will be spent them touring the school, shadowing our students, doing an infrastructure tour with our facility director, meeting with the superintendent and you to talk with you about your perspective of the school and parents and teachers and faculty in depth, visiting, eating in our cafeteria.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: We have one day they'll have lunch in our cafeteria. One day every plaudits. Culinary students will be providing lunch and one day our life skills students will provide lunch

[8679-311] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (arrives late after the accident on 93 [353-361] | 2016-10-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: In your.
TEXT> Packet a memo from me and the two page memo, and it reviews, the policies, the condom distribution policy, which is before you for a second read.  And then there are six additional policies as a first read, the condom distribution policy, the objective of this policy is to meet the needs of our, our of our students needs that have been identified through several years of the Youth Risk Behavior Survey, and last year, a group of residents and administration and staff, medical staff, as well as teaching staff and administrative staff and parents and community members, spent several months on a youth risk behavior study group. And the focus was one of the criteria of the Youth Risk Behavior  Survey, which is human sexuality. And clearly there was a specific needs and issues that were discussed, and the recommendation was to come forward with a policy that dealt with condom distribution as well as a policy that, involves with expanding the health and wellness opportunities of our students in the elementary, middle and in high school, which could be part of the budget process. Unfortunately, I see I have a condom destruction policy. Yes.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Obviously picked up on that.

[8679-315] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (arrives late after the accident on 93 [353-361] | 2016-10-05
PREV> Chris Irish: But.
TEXT> But as I told you before, but for the grace of God go I. And there are times when, yes, I will make a mistake, but it's an opportunity to improve and it is what it is. But the key with this condom distribution policy, is to accept the reality of our, of our current, I think state in our society today. We are in a very different place today than we were a few decades ago. I will tell you that you saw an example of the students of Stevens High School tonight, wonderful group of young men and women at Stevens High School. But we also need to encourage them to make wise decisions  as well as encourage them to be safe. And this condom distribution policy speaks to that. This policy is substantiated and supported by  the Association of Pediatrics. And also we have been working closely with some local agencies. It's time that the community works more closely together for the benefit of our students. And I believe this condom distribution policy is one step toward that. There is absolutely no research that I have seen that substantiates that a policy of this nature or that providing the opportunity for condoms in a public school increases sexuality.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: In fact, research, I believe, has shown that it actually decreases it because the goal is not just condoms. The goal is information, accurate information that students may not have

[8679-316] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (arrives late after the accident on 93 [353-361] | 2016-10-05
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: of our students. And I believe this condom distribution policy is one step toward that. There is absolutely no research that I have seen that substantiates that a policy of this nature or that providing the opportunity for condoms in a public school increases sexuality.
TEXT> In fact, research, I believe, has shown that it actually decreases it because the goal is not just condoms. The goal is information, accurate information that students may not have access to, access to,  but now will have access. Parents do have the opportunity to opt out, and it's done discreetly through an email  or phone call to our school nurse. This should be private. This is not going to. This is like any other matter that deals with student issues. So it's before you as a second read and as I said before, in this in the memo, there is an adjustment and the adjustment is the the opt out. So that is one reflection that has that occurred a week ago and does represent a change. The intent of the policy has not changed. The spirit of the policy has not changed. And I have taken this model working with other districts who have a comparable model, and also working with some local agencies and part of the Youth Behavior Study group. So before you as a second grade, and finally, it's very important that we once the board approves a final version of this, assuming you do that, we clearly communicate to the community, to the parents that everything is above board and people are informed and aware so we can go forward and together. Because this is about the community. Parents, students and school board are working together.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And discussion. Everyone had a chance to to look at the revision.

[8679-325] Maggie Monroe Castle | Public commenter, Executive Director, TLC Family Resource Center (self | 2016-10-05
PREV> Maggie Monroe Castle: teenagers are given the opportunity to to get their hands on condoms, that it increases their opportunity to have sexual intercourse. In fact, it does show evidence shows that when those who are already sexually active are given that opportunity, way more use that opportunity.
TEXT> And so practice safe sex. There is no legal issue about the school providing this, and you may have already received some information. I don't know if that was in your packet about that, because I know that there's been some concern about whether whether there's a legal issue in terms of reporting sexual behavior under the age of 16. So  there's plenty of evidence that supports that. There's not a legal reason to not provide these to our students. I just introduced myself as the executive director of a family resource center here. What most people don't know about me is that I have a history as a Baptist minister, so I therefore understand the moral issues and the community concerns about where society has gone. But the reality is that this is what over the damn, you know, we're here now, as Doctor Goodwin said. And the moral, if you want to call it a moral thing to do, the moral thing to do is to look at what will keep our students and our citizens and our families safe and healthy.  So, you know, it's a complicated issue. It's right with a lot of emotion. But there is evidence that points to your support, and you're voting on this being the right thing to do for our children and for our families and for the future of Claremont. Really. Thank you for your time.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Thank you for coming up.

[8679-329] Willow Maureen | Public commenter, nurse practitioner at Planned Parenthood (self-ident | 2016-10-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anybody else?
TEXT> Hi. I'm going to talk just because I came. So I'm Willow Maureen. I'm a nurse practitioner at Planned Parenthood. So I'm super, super excited that this the condoms being available in the school is has been brought to the table. I pass out condoms all day, every day to anybody who walks into my clinic and it's not enough. So there's, you know, there's lots of talk about, oh, well, Planned Parenthood has condoms. Why do we need to pass out condoms in the school if Planned Parenthood has them? They need to be available where kids are because they're having sex. And we know that we know about half of high school aged kids, young adults are having sex. The last time they  see 5% of those kids did not use a condom the last time they had sex. They need to be able to have access to that. We're not going. If it. Teens prevent teen pregnancy, not adults. So they need to have access to to the to the tools and resources that will help prevent teen pregnancy and STIs. In Sullivan County and in this area, chlamydia has is the high. We have the highest rates of chlamydia in solving county or in the state.
NEXT> Willow Maureen: Even though New Hampshire has the lowest rates of chlamydia in the country. So we need to do better. And one of the ways of doing that is having access

[8679-332] Willow Maureen | Public commenter, nurse practitioner at Planned Parenthood (self-ident | 2016-10-05
PREV> Patrick Adrian: ownership in terms of having of kind of go, go to the next step and providing the condoms themselves and you know, there's so I, I guess I want to get your, your thoughts about it because I understand they're looking at, you know, their.
TEXT> And even having the policy in place may increase the parent child communication and open up that that avenue of communication where, hey, condoms are available in schools. Maybe I should maybe I should have condoms available for my for my child. So I think that even it normalizes it, it it it  opens up that that avenue for discussion. But if it's an opt out policy, there might not even be that discussion. And we're not. And then you're not putting responsibility on the parent, and there's no way to put responsibility on the parent with an opt out, policy. And, you know, we know in this community, kids need other caring adults in their life, maybe besides their parents. If not, you know, if their parents or caregivers aren't  that caring adult,  that having, you know, that face to face with a school nurse who may give them more information along with condoms would would help.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.

[8679-338] Cassidy Kelly | Public commenter, Stevens High School senior speaking for the GSA (sel | 2016-10-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: We can we can vote to waive the third reading and move for adoption. Okay. We have put more public.
TEXT> So my. Name is Cassidy Kelly and I'm senior at the high school. I'm a part of the A. And before I go into the condom distribution thing on behalf of the GSA, we'd like to say thank you for passing the transgender policy because that means so much to us. We know so many transgender students there that felt very uncomfortable. They didn't feel like they were being addressed. So on to the condom distribution policy. I think it's important for students to have access to condoms because STDs are still a big problem, just as unplanned teen pregnancy is, and condoms are expensive, teens may not have enough money to go buy them themselves. And,  just because Planned Parenthood is next to the high school doesn't mean they're going to go there, because they may feel shy about going since it's right next to Tremont as well, where people go and have lunch and people will see them. And so if teens are going to have sex, they may not have condoms to keep themselves safe. And I feel like that's important. So I just wanted to state my opinion.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Thank you. Thank you very much.

[8679-344] Richard Seaman | Public commenter (uncertain - ASR 'Richard Feynman' at the mic [458] a | 2016-10-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thoughts? Oh, one more.
TEXT> Richard Feynman. Proud husband of Lisa Draper, who also works at TLC and would be here speaking on her own if she weren't in Boston right now. And kudos to the board. This has been a long discussion to  make available condoms to our students and to provide this additional part of of both health education as well as health safety. And we know we have an issue in our town, and we know we have an issue in our in our community. A lot of people are working on it. It's time for the school to have joined in on that. The only request that I have as it relates to the policy and being the only male who's come up here so far, is having as opposed to only being able to go to the nurse.  Can we propose? And I'd like to input from Pat on this,  that distribution could be done by the athletic director or the counselors or someone. So a a male can go to a male  as opposed to a male having go only to a female. The issue related to safe sex. The issue related to.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Sexually transmitted diseases often falls onto the girl, on to the woman, and it's every bit the responsibility of the boy, every bit the responsibility is to be able to

[8679-350] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'the schedule that Bar | 2016-10-05
PREV> Cassidy Kelly: It's a.
TEXT> Great idea. I wish I thought of this. I think it's a wonderful idea. And just as you were speaking was thinking in my mind, I think we would have what my recommendation would be. We now have a male guidance counselor. So.  And we have between the two crisis counselors that we have one female Monday, Wednesday and Friday and a male Tuesday, Thursday. These folks have the kind of training to be dealing in guidance related issues anyway, and I think they would be a perfect fit that would give our students access to five more adults in the building, two of them being male, and they would have the skill set to, have the conversations that students may want to have, they may not want to have with that adult when asking for for the condom. So I would be very supportive of that. I would certainly want to reach out to those individuals to make sure they were comfortable in that role. But I think that would be a great idea and I would be very supportive of it.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Is that a simple change where we could just in the policy, replace school nurse with authorized personnel? Stole his idea.

[8679-395] Richard Seaman | Public commenter (uncertain - ASR 'Richard Feynman' at the mic [458] a | 2016-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: If.
TEXT> You keep your knees together, everything,  it doesn't work that way.  And part of and I recommended the board following up on this. The next one is to get into the health education curriculum, which we have at the high school and also at the middle school. It's hard to admit the fact that we have as much sexual activity as many pregnancies coming out of our middle school as we do, and we have many that are coming out of our middle school. We need to bring the education along. When you talk about STDs, you talk about what do  condoms, along with education, along with normalcy, along with an acceptance that this is going on, that's what changes the amount of STDs. That's what changes the behaviors. We talk about the Shine program and the Shine program, which is run by Liza. It's available for for boys to come. We need a greater acceptance by the boys to come to these types of programs and to get more of the men, more of the boys involved in the education. It's not just a one sided issue here. So I only recommendation, as we get this policy in place, is let's jump right into the health education side of this and accept the fact that the adults and the kids need to be on the same page as it relates to the education part of this.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Then we'll begin to see the changes in our town that we're hoping to see.

[8679-482] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (arrives late after the accident on 93 [353-361] | 2016-10-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: School calendar. Okay.
TEXT> Yeah. The board approved the 20 1617 school calendar, just prior to the end of the school year, but working with Gwen Melcher, city clerk, and looking what's happening with our presidential  race. It would be in the best interest of the  election process to cancel school on Tuesday, November 8th. Now, there is no school on Tuesday, November 8th, but there are parent teacher conferences. And so my recommendation to you is  that on Monday, November 7th, we have no school and that is parent teacher conferences. I'm Tuesday, November 8th. There is no school at all. And that would require extending the school year one day. We have looked at alternative sites. We meeting Gwen Melcher, police chief Alex Scott, Melissa Lewis, Paulette, Gerald, myself looked. Could we do it in a different place?  And there are, specific criteria as to where the polling place has to be in relation to, where the residents live. And so we do not have an alternative place. So we have to do it at our schools, or at least for the time being. So I would recommend that, and I would notify parents tomorrow so they can plan accordingly. The conferences would be on November 7th. No school on the seventh. There's no school in the eighth because of the election. And then the school year is extended one day.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: What's the any impact on graduation or anything like that?

[8706-25] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-10-19
PREV> Unidentified: Second.
TEXT> All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Thank you. And that's our work for tonight. Our student representative is. Not here. I'm assuming one field hockey still.
NEXT> Unidentified: No, that was.

[8706-172] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> But kind of,  kind of putting the pieces together. I can't think of a perfect analogy for that right now, but, because of the way things have unfolded with grants that we've received through New Hampshire Listens or through the May Foundation, through our work as a  school district in Claremont, to develop the Strategic Action Plan and putting that together. And through a some of the other work that we've been able to do.  Originally they I think if you were going to look at them, it seems like we're going in 75 different directions, but they  all are working toward the same ultimate goal of improving our community, improving our outcomes for our students. And so  as these pieces fall together and data is collected through a variety of sources, it gives us a  a more rich understanding of what is actually needed here, what is our current reality  and and what does our community, want to see  as we move forward. And so we did have a forum a couple of weeks ago. It was very well attended. It was to have a conversation in our community about early learning, primarily focused on children ages birth through five.  And we had  just shy of 70 folks attending that, which  was, you know, short of the number I was hoping for. However, it was a cross-section of our community together in one room in a way that we've not seen before.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Oh, wow. And and there were a lot of new faces in the room. So usually you see sort of the same 40 people over and over. There were a

[8706-173] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: birth through five. And we had just shy of 70 folks attending that, which was, you know, short of the number I was hoping for. However, it was a cross-section of our community together in one room in a way that we've not seen before.
TEXT> Oh, wow.  And and there were a lot of new faces in the room. So usually you see sort of the same 40 people over and over. There were a lot of new faces in the room that I didn't recognize, and it was really great to have them there and contributing. And,  we've collected that,  information. I know that there were some folks from the, the,  city council there as well, and we'll be sharing that data out with people. The, the data that we collected at that event. And using that data, data collected through the city from the master plan initiative that they're working on and data collected through the Claremont Stories Project,  all will be reviewed and used to create not only our plan of excellence for the Claremont School District, but really to look at what are the action items for the school to focus on through these various data sources? It's it represents well over 400 people in our community.  And how can we leverage that to create action plans, not discussion plans, not admire the problem plans, but action plans to move us forward and and see some different results. And when we talk about I already tonight, you'll be able to see very clearly the impact of some of the decisions that have been made at this table and how we are making a difference for our kids. So it's kind of exciting.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I will share with you, Brian. You know, I'm not surprised that, you know, there's some confusion. Which forum was this? Because, but I will share this with you last

[8706-191] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: faculty next month. But it's going to be important for you in the community to understand just what I ready is about and how it is going to allow us to go to the next level, focusing on our priorities that already are quite clear.
TEXT> And in the past, it has been  with data collected through the NWA or  Map assessment. We had used that assessment in this district for a number of years,  and for a variety of reasons. We chose to change that this year, and instead of using that product, we have switched to a product called I ready?  I already is. Not wanting to click through. There We Go is a blended learning platform, so it allows us to have a diagnostic assessment,  on the same platform as an instructional component. And so the diagnostic pieces and adaptive assessment is done on the computer, just like NWA and Map had been done before.  The Smarter Balance assessment is done on the computer. And so our students are familiar with that platform. And what it allows to have happen is that as students are faced with a question and they get that question right or wrong, the test will adjust harder or easier based on whether or not there answer was correct. And what it is intended to do is find what they call their zone of proximal development so that  learning range in which they're ready to learn new information.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So it's not too hard that they shut down. It's just it's the just right learning target. And this assessment is designed to figure out what that is. One of

[8706-194] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: group of students, 3 or 4 students on computers working on their irony assessment in an engaging format that they can learn without the support of a teacher at that time, and allows the teacher to work individually with the students who need the teacher's
TEXT> support on topics specific to those students. So it's actually, one might argue that it's actually allowing more time for teachers to work with individual students and students getting more what they need from the teacher themselves instead of, being left to work, you know, independently or on their own, or helping out a friend.  The online piece  is directly connected to the test that they take. And so the data that received feeds right into the online piece, they start wherever they  are at. And then when they take the assessment again in the middle of the year, it adjusts where they go from there.  There's lots of different, you know, stop gaps and things like that with the online piece so that students aren't left floundering,  out there for a while without any supports. There's reports that get sent to the teacher directly. I can see reports, and there's that ability to check in. Teachers can also actually assign students. So if I know,  Brian needs to work on a particular skill in order to support his learning in our regular math class, then I can assign some specific lessons to him through this module  and monitor how he's doing on those.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: The online piece also gives corrective feedback, so students aren't able to just click through with wrong answers and get to the to the end. If they provide an incorrect

[8706-195] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: actually assign students. So if I know, Brian needs to work on a particular skill in order to support his learning in our regular math class, then I can assign some specific lessons to him through this module and monitor how he's doing on those.
TEXT> The  online piece also gives corrective feedback, so students aren't able to just click through with wrong answers and get to the to the end. If they provide an incorrect answer, the program gives them feedback and helps them better understand what the correct answer is.  And after a certain number of those scenarios, if they can't get it, then it flags the teacher, and the teacher knows that they have to do a sort of an in-person reteach on a particular topic before the student is able to move on. So it does not allow for learning or the lack thereof to continue. It doesn't allow for the student just to progress without  knowing that they're actually learning along the way.  It also prioritizes the highest in need area.  So if a student is stronger in math versus reading, it will send more of the math lessons for the students than the reading lessons, because that's their greater. No. The send more of the reading lessons and the math lessons because that's their greater, greater area of need.  The last piece is it does provide lesson plans for teachers. Now. It provides lesson plans for teachers for another product that we could have purchased. But we didn't at this time. But it also provides lesson plans for teachers to do in their classrooms  without any additional product purchasing.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And why that's helpful is because our teachers spend a lot of time planning for these small groups, and if they're able to get high quality lessons for these small

[8706-198] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: test, adapt to students, and they've been able to see what types of questions students are being asked. And, we've gotten a lot of positive feedback about that so far. So I'm sure you really want to see the data more than the assessment, right?
TEXT> So this is our baseline data. We can't really talk about growth tonight because this is the first time we've taken the assessment. So we can really only talk about it as a baseline. And  this is the part that I find to be incredibly exciting in most cases. There's a couple of things here that we need to work on. But most of it is incredibly exciting. And that's because. What we're looking at up here represents the number of our students who are considered on level for the beginning of the year. So, you know, based on where students should be at the start of first grade.  Across Claremont, we have 90% of our kids on level.  And this one is math. What I want to show you reading. And then I want to talk about that a little bit more. So in reading, we have 94% of our first graders on level.
NEXT> Unidentified: And.

[8706-203] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: baseline and improving from there. And what I want to be able to see is that first grade cohort as they move up through maintain that or increase that and then see the grades that are behind them fill in with similar or better results.
TEXT> And that's what we're hoping to do here. And this is an opportunity for us to see that visually in your packets. I included the the data from all of the schools individually, and you're welcome to look at that. But for time purposes, for the board presentation, I didn't include that all up here. So just to clarify, this is where students should be in relation to the start of their grade. If you look at where they should be by the end of the year, right now we still have, you know, between 10 and 15% of our students already demonstrating at the beginning of the year that they are meeting end of year expectations.  And so when we first looked at that and we saw only 10 or 15% of our students being on level, we didn't realize that you could toggle  how how their data was reported and thought we were in a world of hurt and realized, oh, that's because we're comparing them to the end of year. But what you have in here is comparing them to where they should be at the beginning of the year, and it's pretty strong, particularly in our early levels and our upper grades. It's it's not okay, it's not acceptable. And we have work to do. But in our lower grades it's a good start.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So next steps. And doctor we'll talk about this in a minute. Part of this implementation has been ensuring that teachers have the tools and knowledge and understanding that they

[8706-204] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: where they should be at the beginning of the year, and it's pretty strong, particularly in our early levels and our upper grades. It's it's not okay, it's not acceptable. And we have work to do. But in our lower grades it's a good start.
TEXT> So next steps. And doctor we'll talk about this in a minute. Part of this implementation has been ensuring that teachers have the tools and knowledge and understanding that they need in order to carry this out successfully.  We need to we had an initial training on the first professional development day before students came back. We had administrator training this past summer, and now that the data is in, we need to provide training for our teachers so that they know how to access the reports, how to interpret the reports, and how to use those reports to impact their instruction and to and to adjust and inform their instruction to meet the needs of their students. And so that's that's our next step to provide that training for them. We also are going to ensure that all of our students in grades one through eight can access the online instructional portion of this. So it's been a little bit of adjusting to a new teaching style for some folks of how do we,  how do we arrange our classroom structures differently so that we can allow for students to,  to access the online component and maximize our learning?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So there's been some supports needed with that. And then the last is to share the data for individual students with parents at parent teacher conferences, which are coming up

[8706-212] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers him as 'Frank',  | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: actually put it on the Claremont School District Facebook page. Okay. If I didn't, I will. But yes, we can. We can put the a link up there for people to go on and look. Some of it's more self-explanatory than other parts of it.
TEXT> I have a comment, several questions, but I'll ask one question and let somebody else jump in. So don't have everything. First comment.  Corey, is that the biggest striking thing I see with that is the format of the questioning, the graphics. Very nice compared to what was just text. And so that's very I think that's probably a lot more engaging for the kids. So I like that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Good point.

[8706-214] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers him as 'Frank',  | 2016-10-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Good point.
TEXT> The first I have several but I'll ask one first. So first one I'm going to ask is about the you had mentioned that this gives the teacher the opportunity to work in small groups with the kids who are probably, I'm guessing, require special, really specialized instruction. They're significantly below.
NEXT> Unidentified: It gives.

[8706-216] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Unidentified: It gives.
TEXT> The teacher opportunities to work in small groups with all children  because they have an option. Now that's a viable option for all students to work independently on their own. So even students who are multiple grade levels behind can interface with the instructional component of I ready  at their level without the need of adult support. And so all students in the classroom can have an opportunity when they don't need the teacher's help, which allows the teacher to then work individually with all students, if that makes sense.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It does. Where I'm going with it is. So I'm looking at the upper case. So yeah. So there because it's adaptive. If they're pre-algebra for example a grade six,

[8706-218] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: It does. Where I'm going with it is. So I'm looking at the upper case. So yeah. So there because it's adaptive. If they're pre-algebra for example a grade six, it will take them there.
TEXT> It will take them there. It will take them up. The instructional side is designed to only go through essentially eighth grade.  We do have some students  in  our high school  who instructional need supports lower than ninth grade. And so they're able to access the instructional component of this product even though it doesn't technically, it's not technically designed to go beyond eighth grade, but the content meets our students where they are at. And so even some of our high school students are able to access the instructional component. But it does.  It adapts.  And so not only does the assessment adapt, but the instructional component adapts and meets kids where they are. So your your high fliers, your students who already know the information and typically or historically have been,  not the recipients of the teacher attention in small group settings, they  are able to engage in this  instructional product in a way that meets them where they are and extends them. And then again, you know, as we are able to have all students,  engaged in,  in software for a period of time, it frees up the teacher to work with all students and not only,  not only the same kids over and over again. It's better. It's better than worksheets. It's better than. Oh, you're a really high flying kid.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Why don't you work with this student who's really struggling and help them out? It's. It's a better option than that. Is it the solution to everything? No, but it's

[8706-220] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: better option than what we've had in the past. This is our first year with it. We're going to get better as we go. And I think that you're going to see more students engaged in real life learning with feedback, more of the time.
TEXT> On this. And this is neat because it sort of connects to their the technology it does. And, you know, the kids have technology classes and.
NEXT> Unidentified: They do.

[8706-223] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: That gets them ready for, I guess, interfacing with this this product.
TEXT> Yeah, absolutely. So it's, you know, a byproduct of them engaging in the instructional software. And the assessment itself is learning additional technology skills, how to manipulate, you know, the mouse and things like that, which they have to do for the smarter balance assessment. Also.  And back to Frank's points about the the graphics. The graphics are much better in the assessment side, and they're very engaging in the instructional side and the and the graphics and the material adapts to the age of the child. So the middle school graphics are much more designed for middle school interests than elementary school.  They also have,  I don't know what you call it, but they have licensing with like the NBA and different things. So they have those icons included. With  the product, they have sort of brain breaks built in. So students will work for a period of time,  and then there's a brain break. So they are allowed to engage with a game  for a  small period of time and then go back to the learning and the assessment,  which is really helpful for our, our younger learners and just, you know, it's not like you just dump them on there for 45 minutes and say, see you later. Bye. It's supporting them along the way.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I do have another question. If nobody else has one.

[8706-234] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: So is there is there a way? Yeah. It's interesting. I like to look to.
TEXT> And I pull it up for you now, but I only have live data with actual student names on it to show that report. And so I can't do that publicly, but I can provide you with what one of those reports looks like after I redact, the name, but it does. That was a major determining factor of why we went with this product, because it does get to the skill level, not just the categorical level or the standard level. It goes further down. Is it a diagnostic assessment? Not necessarily.  It will point you in the right direction. It will narrow it down to the skill level. There may be further investigation required to really fully understand beyond that where there the issues might lie.  But it, it gets us further than anything else has gotten us before. And remember this is a benchmark assessment. So all of our students are taking it. So anything that you have the entire student body taking isn't as diagnostic as an individual student.  But it gets us further than anything else has gotten us before.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Nice.

[8706-246] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: that, take the kind of take the factual information and use it differently. And that's one of these I it's just one of these concerns I have like, how do we address that? Because they have to be able to do that to move forward.
TEXT> And you'll see with the data, you know, it starts off the strongest and over the grades as you progress. Fewer of our students are considered on level right now.   And in talking with a colleague and, who was in another district, they saw a similar result in another district.  And so that's something that we need to explore further. Is it because they're lacking some foundational skills that don't show up until the higher levels? Is it because they understand those discrete skills, but they can't then apply it in more complex ways? The you know, the whole idea, the performance task. Still trying to understand that. And if I made up an answer right now, I just be making it up.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So yeah. So I'm more throwing it out there for something to think about is I don't have those answers either. I'm just wondering.

[8706-312] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-10-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yes. Calendar.
TEXT> So, two weeks ago, you approved a revision in the calendar that had to do in November 8th. And the conferences are going to move from November 8th to November 7th. No school on November 7th and November 8th. No conferences. And there's no school because of the anticipated turnout that might be increased or decreased after tonight's debate. But that being said, what's important, though, is, with Corey's presentation about irony  and remembering what Brian said in prior assessments, we get the information. That's nice, but it's almost like too late. What's critical about irony is that we can maximize the information and to maximize the information, the our students  data, we need to be well versed in utilizing the irony component. We do need additional training for our faculty. I already is, and we need to do it sooner than later. So we don't we have the opportunity to maximize the information from I. Ready. So I am recommending  that we have an early release day.  November 3rd  high school would be dismissed a little before 11:00, middle school at 11 and the elementary at 12. And the trainings will be 1130 to 230 for the high school and and middle school, and 1230 to 330 for the elementary. We would notify parents there would be a release. And I'm asking  for your approval. That does change the calendar. We still are in compliance with, the the minimum expected  instructional time for the school year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So it doesn't does it put you into another day of school?

[8706-331] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: Yeah, we may have to adjust.
TEXT> So we're not going to notify the community until that's nailed down. But this is all about six hours old. Working with the principals this morning we realized and we looked at different dates and we just settled on the third because of the timing and also trying to minimize the impact on students. Okay. But we're going to maximize the impact on students by this training.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: All in favor.

[8706-373] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' seg 131; 'does th | 2016-10-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: That's something different. That's something different.
TEXT> What I'm speaking of is, for example, say mom calls on Friday because she can't get back or something happened and dad has to take the kids, but he lives on the other side of town. They call and ask for that kid to go on a different bus. You're saying that that won't be possible any longer?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: There was no. I'm saying that the building. I've been discouraging that. So the we have some parents who, because of circumstances, make certain requests, you know, there's going to

[8706-398] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent and chair address 'Patri | 2016-10-19
PREV> Chris Irish: Yeah.
TEXT> It gets it yet but if they have it is a good policy I have in place because then it  no one needs to be fuzed after school when they're trying to get these kids onto the right busses. And I think, yeah, okay.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So does that work for you, Michel?

[8706-404] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' seg 131; 'does th | 2016-10-19
PREV> Chris Irish: Of you.
TEXT> But there's emergencies to, you know, parents get in a car accident, somebody's going to take care of the kids, got to get dropped off. Where's it going to get dropped off? Emergency contact. Where is that on Maple Avenue. How's it going to get there? Bus. You know, we just want to make sure that the children are ultimately protected all the way around. Not just what looks on one side to be. No, nobody can do it. But all the way around. If it's an emergency, yes, you can do it. Things like that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's where the principal steps in.

[8732-25] Marion | Student representative to the board (named 'Marion' by the superintend | 2016-11-02
PREV> Marion: is math. Nearly 50 key club members took part last night in our annual Unicef fundraiser, for which is the maternal tetanus disease that we do every year. Partnered with the ones last night instead of asking for candy will actually, this is Monday night.
TEXT> They solicited funds to help eradicate this deadly disease. It's called the Lemonade Project. We should be proud of these kids and all they do. A student survey was sent on Friday to all nine to 12th graders regarding flex process and enrichment opportunities. The survey was developed in collaboration with Student Council for the purpose of involving students and helping to improve Flex require students were chosen to attend the All New England Choral Festival on Thursday at Plymouth State University. Adeline Nelson and Robin Farmer. The honor civics class will be holding a mock election on Friday, November 4th, 2016. And the guidelines that's so far for college application and acceptance is we have 11 early applications, two early decision applications and 52 applications submitted in general, which is 18% of the class that has submitted and have received eight acceptances so far. We expect a big surge in application rates throughout November. All of these stats were gathered from the Navy, which were getting a hang of then from. Disney does not enjoyed several Halloween events. Last week we had some spooky story night fun and families like fun with families, beginning with a spaghetti dinner sponsored by the Disney PTA teachers, and shared some read aloud and reading comprehension strategies using some spooky stories. We ended the evening with some vocabulary chicken treat throughout the building. Monday we enjoyed a costume parade and classroom parties.
NEXT> Marion: Students continued to explore their eye ready lessons. Many are disappointed when their time is up and excited for the next opportunity. Our students are practicing for their upcoming holiday

[8732-26] Marion | Student representative to the board (named 'Marion' by the superintend | 2016-11-02
PREV> Marion: beginning with a spaghetti dinner sponsored by the Disney PTA teachers, and shared some read aloud and reading comprehension strategies using some spooky stories. We ended the evening with some vocabulary chicken treat throughout the building. Monday we enjoyed a costume parade and classroom parties.
TEXT> Students continued to explore  their eye ready lessons. Many are disappointed when their time is up and excited for the next opportunity. Our students are practicing for their upcoming holiday concert. We are excited for all of our students to share their musical talents with our community. We are excited for Friday as we have all the pleasure of the Lime Town Band joining us for our annual Veteran's Day Assembly to celebrate our pride and appreciation for those who have served in our armed Forces and from Bluff Bluff Elementary School had Haley Lapointe, meteorologist from WMUR, give a school ride presentation on Weather bluff has also started their science. We can have shown great improvement in their math and fact scores. And then from the middle school. Sorry about the pause.  Student parent advisor conferences are taking place next Monday. These student led conferences are rich. The students have prepared a portfolio of their work goals, assessment scores, etc. students attend with their parents and lead the conference. Eighth grade is holding a bake sale on Election Day in the lobby of CMS gym. This is to raise money for their service Learning project.
NEXT> Marion: The Serving Service Learning Project is focused on learning about foster care system. They also recently held a panel discussion with the community members to learn more about the foster

[8732-28] Marion | Student representative to the board (named 'Marion' by the superintend | 2016-11-02
PREV> Marion: additional coaching for teachers. Our goal is to improve instruction as well as to have common language with regard to expectations for the teachers. The implementation of these data will also provide consistency for students, as they will go from one teacher to the next.
TEXT> We have started our wind block, where we are using ready data to group students who share similar needs. There is an online component that students are using that provides them with target instructions that they need. We recently had seven and eighth grade girls participating in the Young Women in Engineering day at the CS, C, C. They spent the day with real engineers completing projects such as boat building, bridge building and computer programing. We recently had a group of students participate in a green Dot summit that focused on the prevention of domestic violence. Eighth graders will be visiting Keene State College later this month as part of our college awareness initiative.  After receiving a grant from the Children's Fund of the Upper Valley, we were able to provide a running club for eight students. They participated in two races. We are working with Local Forge program through the H, and to offer an  after school club for students to focus on renewable energy, which is wind, solar and hydropower. This would take place for ten weeks during January, with a reminder fee of $10 per child for 12 to 15 students. A greenhouse gardening committee is research and grants to help them build a greenhouse.
NEXT> Marion: They have received a minimum or a mini grant from the CMS PTO for seeds and other materials. After a successful raised bed gardening season, they are ready to do

[8732-35] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. I echo what Marion said about  the play this weekend. And,  Larissa Cahill, the director and teacher, indicated that the students had approximately one month to do this. And it came off, as Marion said, very, very well. So it's a great compliment to Stevens High School and the students and the theater of the department.  You have we've talked about  the SA6  district goals, the academic achievement goals. And, and we talked about  having the opportunity where we're going to see 100% of our students demonstrate measurable growth in reading, writing and math. And different levels have have different targets. We've also talked about the importance of publicly discussing  the results of these, not to compare one school to another, but to demonstrate,  where our students are, to demonstrate the growth and to discuss what we are doing when we don't see the desired growth  of in addition. We've talked about the goal for 1617 at that student attendance at Stevens High School will be no less than 93%  as of right now. As of today, it's about 92%. So we're working toward that goal. And of course, the real goal is to exceed that. And last but not least.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The fourth academic achievement goal, which we'll talk about throughout the year. The 75% of Steven High School students will apply, be accepted to a post-secondary institution. In 75% of

[8732-37] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: 99% of all jobs created after the 2008 financial recession. Required post-secondary training. High school is important. The skill set is very important. But what's also important is that students are prepared to be eligible for post-secondary training. 99% of the jobs since 2008 require.
TEXT> Post-secondary training. Another is preparing students for meaningful post-secondary opportunities is critical. It was made very clear.  High school is important, but it's the foundation for additional training. And last but not least, by year 2020, New Hampshire will have more jobs than people to fill them. And some of that has to do with the way the economy is changing and the way industry and other opportunities are  starting to expand in New Hampshire. But it's also indicative of a declining population, and we see the decline in enrollment. But I think another piece of this has to do with having our students be eligible, be prepared for post-high school training so they will be qualified for many of these positions  as, as we move toward 2020. More jobs than people to fill them. So any more reason for us to be having these measurable growth goals and to and to discuss them frequently? And I and we had a good discussion today  because I shared this with the principals. And one principal said, you know, the importance of being able to read and write and mathematics, that's critical. But there's much, much more that's required of our students  after they leave high school to be successful.  And one of the issues was critical and creative thinking.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Another was perseverance to stick to it in this, having the mindset that if I'm having difficulty with this challenge, not to throw in the towel, but rather to stay

[8732-38] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: principal said, you know, the importance of being able to read and write and mathematics, that's critical. But there's much, much more that's required of our students after they leave high school to be successful. And one of the issues was critical and creative thinking.
TEXT> Another was perseverance to stick to it in this, having the mindset that if I'm having difficulty with this challenge,  not to throw in the towel, but rather to  stay with it and use lack of successes as an opportunity to learn and to become successful. So,  I just was was pleased to hear that, because what I just shared with you, because it does talk about where we are focusing, but knowing that we have much more to do in Claremont than just reading, writing and mathematics, even though that's foundational and essential, there's more to it than just those academic content areas. And we're going to be discussing that as well. So our goals for the next five years very likely are going to be adjusted as we accomplish certain goals and make some adjustments to to raise that bar and to raise the expectation and skill set of our students as they move toward 2020 and beyond. I'd also like to share with you that I'm meeting in a couple of weeks with the school nurses. I meet with them about once every three months,  and we are talking about school clinic protocols as well as best practices. Now, why is the Superintendent of schools meeting with nurses? Because we don't have a central nurse leader position. We don't have someone who brings the nurses together. And so their role is very, very important. And I want to facilitate that the day after.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: However, in the meeting in November, I'm meeting with Peter Wright, Valley Regional Hospital CEO, and we're going to be talking about how the Valley Regional Hospital and the nursing

[8732-39] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Now, why is the Superintendent of schools meeting with nurses? Because we don't have a central nurse leader position. We don't have someone who brings the nurses together. And so their role is very, very important. And I want to facilitate that the day after.
TEXT> However, in the meeting in November, I'm meeting with Peter Wright, Valley Regional Hospital CEO, and we're going to be talking about how the Valley Regional Hospital and the nursing program at Valley Regional, the skilled nurses at Valley Regional can support and complement our efforts at the school level because,  since Peter Wright arrived.  Valley Regional and the Claremont School District have had been partners,  and he continues to extend  the opportunity to work closely with us, because when our students benefit  the community benefits and Valley Regional Hospital benefits. So,  I just want to share with you that  these partnerships with Valley Regional, as well as other municipal departments, is critical, is critical as measured by the impact and benefit to our students. You have a a two sided yellow piece of paper in front of you. And, I received this about two hours ago  from Ned Reynolds from Johnson Control. And this basically is a study from Northern Forest Center. Wood pellets are better for the air. And if you go through this, you'll see that. And for the audience, there are some there are some of these handouts on the table that the use of wood pellets is a significant difference in amount of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere on day one.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Using wood pellets for heat reduces greenhouse gases by 54% compared to all, and almost 60% compared to natural gas. And you can see the grams of greenhouse gas for

[8732-41] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: greenhouse gas emission and we're maximizing what used to be waste with forestry, let alone the financial impact on the Claremont School District and therefore the impact on the taxpayer, as our cost for heating our schools is enhanced through the use of wood pellets.
TEXT> So we continue to work toward improving our use of energy resources. But I think it's important for the board to understand that the impact of the Stephens High School renovation project and the vote in March 2013 by the Claremont community to support a $12.5 million renovation with zero state aid, not a dime from the state. Five years after a financial implosion of 2008,  because of the community and their support  of their children's school district and the community of Claremont,  we are receiving returns for that investment as indicated. One example  with with pellets. And last but not least, There is  I'm going to be passing this around. This is a calendar  that was produced by several students across our nation. And this calendar deals with  cybersecurity and the misuse or the the challenges  of the internet  and how it can  be detrimental to students unless they are aware of how to protect themselves as well as how to conduct themselves. Because,  we all know that the impact of bullying  is not a phase, and the impact of bullying or having individuals be experiencing the hurtful  does not fade with time. And there are many adults who have who have some unpleasant experiences remembering what it was like. So it's not a phase and it's not okay. And over all of it, and you know, it's not breaking your bones or only words.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We know now that that is not is not the case. And I this Friday I'm going to participate in the green dot training. Continue my work without organization because

[8732-58] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: By doesn't it.
TEXT> But all that aside,  that was one of the many cogs that started to turn the process. And now we're talking about pre-K to 12 and  going on the curriculum website, which is still being built, but you're now having very clear the essential skills and also the, the measurements of every,  every three months or so, which  through I ready and through the discussions that we're going to have publicly about  how our students are responding and how we are responding to them, it's not going to be an overnight or. But that work is alive and well, and it's a PK to 12 initiative.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's good work. And. Oh yes, I.

[8732-117] Mike Siri | Candidate for the board vacancy, retired Stevens math teacher (self-ID | 2016-11-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: So preparing students for college or and giving them the tools to compete in today's job market are one of our top priorities. What do you do to increase and improve student readiness?
TEXT> Well, I think it has to start very early, for one thing.  And again, I'm probably going to talk a lot about the subject that I taught, especially,  but I think the things that I say about mathematics can equally be said about other subject areas. You can't learn math unless you think you can learn math. And when we have kids that come to school and they, you know, some of our homeless children, some of our kids that come from very dysfunctional homes, and  I would tend to think there are probably more of those than we think. When they're not sure whether daddy's going to be angry with mommy tonight or not. Trying to teach the subject at hand is very, very difficult. And so there needs to be some kind of a safety net or a almost like a guardianship of our children at a very early level, in order that they can actually understand the subjects that we're teaching them. That also includes making sure that they're fed, making sure that they have proper clothing, making sure that, you know, their medical needs are met, and so on and so forth. So that would involve  outreach to other community agencies that can help our children. So it's a really, you know, I mean, I hesitate to say this because I'm not I don't want to be political, but, you know, it really is true that it takes a village to raise a child.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So, Mike, what would you do as a school board member to strengthen the parent involvement in the Claremont School District?

[8732-130] Mike Siri | Candidate for the board vacancy, retired Stevens math teacher (self-ID | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Oh.
TEXT> Well, policy. You know that everything that has ever been said is this is a body. A governing body which deals with policies, not the day to day teaching of the children,  but how those schools are going to be operated, providing the funding that we need to make sure that they're done well and communicating to the public what has been done and what we need to do.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'll go jump. Now, my question is a. Yeah. How about it? You want it cool. Do you?

[8732-155] Mike Siri | Candidate for the board vacancy, retired Stevens math teacher (self-ID | 2016-11-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: And what what what is your vision for the Claremont School District five years from now?
TEXT> Five years from now, I'd like to have better budgets for people to deal with. I would like to have a  high level of two way communication.  Teacher to board, and vice versa. And I would like to see our students, and I think they would, given those two issues. I would like to see our students,  all students being very successful as they go through the system.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Great. Thank you.

[8732-159] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Evening.
TEXT> And thanks for the. Opportunity. To come in and talk to you about the  vacancy on the board. I'm very interested. And I took a evening. Out. Of my special time with my children to be here, because it's important to me. And I wanted to relate to you how important it is. So a little bit about me. I'm Doctor Alex Herzog. I have a doctorate in educational leadership from the University of Nevada, Las Vegas School Rebels,  and I am currently the vice president for student affairs and community affairs at River Valley Community College. I've got about 20 years in higher education experience in various positions, mostly in student services and helping students outside of the classroom. And when we talked about the skills needed today for young people today, it's those skills that they can get outside of the classroom that was co-curricular skills that usually help them keep a job while the the classroom skills that they get in the classroom are the ones that help them get it. My family lives here with me, my married to my wife Shawn, who's a K through eight teacher by trade. So I've put up more than my share of classrooms and taken them down in my lifetime. That's just the responsibility of any husband of a teacher. I have two kids invested in, so I'm a little invested in the community here.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I have two kids in the school system, one at the middle school and one at Maple Avenue. And I'm relatively new to Claremont. We just moved here in July,

[8732-160] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Alex Herzog: teacher by trade. So I've put up more than my share of classrooms and taken them down in my lifetime. That's just the responsibility of any husband of a teacher. I have two kids invested in, so I'm a little invested in the community here.
TEXT> I have two kids in the school system, one at the middle school and one at Maple Avenue.  And I'm relatively new to Claremont. We just moved here in July, but I'm not new to the area. I grew up in Glens Falls, New York and upstate New York. So I'm I'm within the area, and I'm only about 100 miles from where I grew up, where my parents still live. And that was a big motivation to bring my family back to the New England area and active in scouting. And I've also I'm a veteran former military. I was a drill sergeant, and then I later I got my commission in the Army Corps of Engineers. So why choose me? We have great candidates, and just being out there chatting with them, you get to appreciate them more. But like I said, I'm vested in the community and I'm vested in the I have two kids in the system, and I believe what we want to offer is the greatest opportunities we can for our children in this community. And I think I can help with those decisions that the board needs to make. I have some great leadership experiences throughout my career,  and since coming to Claremont, I've attended many of the activities that the schools put on.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I've been engaged. I also have the green Dot training this Friday that I'm going to be a part of, but not just at the communities I lived in. I

[8732-161] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Alex Herzog: our children in this community. And I think I can help with those decisions that the board needs to make. I have some great leadership experiences throughout my career, and since coming to Claremont, I've attended many of the activities that the schools put on.
TEXT> I've been engaged. I also have the green Dot training this Friday that I'm going to be a part of, but not just at the communities I lived in. I lived in Nevada, Utah and Arizona. In higher education, if you want to move up, you have to be willing to move around. And in those communities, I worked at different colleges and universities and was also very active in the elementary schools. All my kids were involved, as well as working with civic organizations to raise money for our schools there. In summary, I just want to share with you that I believe that what we should be doing as a board is to provide the best educational opportunities we can, because the children of this community are really our future. And I think that's where our investments in should lie. I'm a parent. I'm an effective leader with strong leadership skills, good experiences and have experience in managing budgets, creating policy. And I look at data when we need to make decisions and make the best decisions we can. I'm passionate about education. I've put over 20 years of my life to be there. Many people, when I say I was a drill sergeant at one time, you think of the, yelling kind and they do that.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Some drill sergeants yell, but their teachers, their teachers, and what they're teaching is the culture of that of the military at that time. So thank you. And I'm open

[8732-165] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: What do you believe to be the most pressing problems facing the Claremont School District?
TEXT> Great question. I think there's a couple of things.  I talked to my  son about this and my daughter too. So my daughter has a 501 plan where she has a nut allergy. So students are coming with two campuses to the to the schools with different concerns, different problems. And it's an individual thing that we need to address that being one issue. The other one is truancy, keeping students engaged and keeping them in school. I think that those are the things that we've got to think about. How do we engage them more and how do we keep them in the schools and learning? To me, my experience is in colleges. It's about students have an individual success plan. What does it take to get them through the classes, and what did they gain from those classes? And each student has a different idea of what that success means.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So preparing.

[8732-168] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Chris Irish: Students for college and or giving them the tools to compete in today's job markets. One of our top priorities. What would you do to increase and improve student readiness?
TEXT> Well, I think I would work with the board to take a look at our policies and procedures. One of the things I think is important that we work as a team and look at these goals together. Maybe work with teachers and the principals and providing what opportunities there were in my experiences, what I've seen elsewhere, what could work, and having great dialog about these things, that we can provide solutions. None of us is as smart as all of us. And we can provide some great ideas and problem solving if we all work together and brainstorm and see what are the best things we can do to make those fixes. And also engage the faculty because our students and the students, for that matter, asking them those questions might be they might have really good answers for us. So talking to the community, talking to your students and talking to the teachers. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: What would you do to strengthen parent parental involvement in the schools?

[8732-182] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: What's your vision for the Claremont School District five years from now?
TEXT> For one, maybe exceeding the goals that are already set. I would love to see us take a look at our high school students. And you know, we have River Valley as an open enrollment institution. And so everybody applies gets accepted. And I think that is an excellent opportunity. So seeing some more bridges passed between that and the high schools today, we had an excellent event where we invited a lot of high school students to our campus and had an opportunity to speak to them and talk to them and talk about what the future holds. And did they get something out of it? A lot more partnerships and bridges so that we can all work together as a team. I it's hard for me to sometimes think about that because I'm a visionary of sorts in what I do. But sometimes I say, you know, I want everybody to graduate. We're going to have 100%, no truancy at that point. But sometimes that's not a reality because our kids come from different backgrounds, and sometimes we have to think about the hardships that they're enduring. And how do we  find those little obstacles that are keeping them from being successful in school and removing those obstacles in any way we can?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Do you like to make a closing statement, or do you have any questions for us?

[8732-203] Richard Seaman | Former board member and candidate for the vacancy, withdraws his candi | 2016-11-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: So.
TEXT> For my opening statement, I think everyone probably is aware of my involvement on the school board before and complete and total commitment to the fact the most important thing that we can do is, citizens of Claremont and residents of Claremont is educate our children.  So, the time and the investment is absolutely critical  for those that are on the board. And thank you all for doing it. What I'd like to do beyond that is just as I've been thinking down through my schedule and what's going on. As you know, I work in the school system over in Woodstock, and we're in the midst of some things there and just evaluating my time. What I'd like to do, if I could is actually withdraw  my application for this. You know, just in talking with the with the other people here. And it's absolutely wonderful to have gotten four people who have applied for one position. There was a time in the past where we didn't get people were applying for open positions. So if it's all right by the board, I'd like to withdraw my application for this and continue to be involved in the strategic planning effort, continue to be involved in any other area as needed. But if that's okay, I would appreciate it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you for.

[8732-230] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: the communication and maybe, figure out a way how to get more people here, figure out a way how to listen to people when they do come here, figure out a way how to just, validate fears and concerns, whether you believe them or not.
TEXT> I think I think the school board has a huge role, and it reminds me almost of parenting. Like you're you're expected to be the everything to everybody. And, it's the same role that teachers have. They're expected to be that everything to everybody. So,  I just think it's important to start for this school board right now to start bridging the gap between the board and the community, and to start thinking about ways to better take care of their teachers. And I'm not saying that teachers are not taking care of that's not what I'm implying at all. But to be a good parent, you have to be able to take care of yourself. To be a good teacher, you have to be able to take care of yourself so that you can take care of your students or your your children. So I'd love to see some sort of I just love to see people here, you know, all the people who have stuff to say all the time. I'd love to see them here, and I'd love to see a conversation with school board members in the community, a real one, because nothing's going to get better without that, in my opinion. And I'm not a professor or a businessman like those people out there. So I'm just a mom. What else? You got anything?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Do you plan to run in March?

[8732-236] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Marion: So if you were to be given this role, what steps would you take to ensure your dedication.
TEXT> To ensure my dedication to the school board?  Well, first and foremost, I would have to ensure my husband's dedication to covering the kids on school board meeting nights. I don't know. I think it's I think it's important when you are a part of anything to, have the mindset, like you're going into a team meeting at school, you know, when when you're meeting with colleagues at school and you're discussing a student, it's it's a Vegas session. You don't leave that and go share, all of your information with the person down the hall, in the cafeteria or in the staff room. I just think it's important to be dedicated to the people you're working with. I think it's important to be trustworthy. I think it's important to be able to trust the people that you're working with. I think it's important to be dedicated to being transparent, because this is a board that, you know, doesn't answer to the community, but the community sees. So when you stop being transparent with things, it causes distrust. So I think it's important to be transparent. If you're going to be dedicated to something. I think it's important to be honest.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That's something I work on a lot to is not being so blunt, but being a little bit nicer. I think it's important to be honest and kind. I think

[8732-237] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: you know, doesn't answer to the community, but the community sees. So when you stop being transparent with things, it causes distrust. So I think it's important to be transparent. If you're going to be dedicated to something. I think it's important to be honest.
TEXT> That's something I work on a lot to is not being so blunt, but being a little bit nicer. I think it's important to be honest and kind. I think it's important to be compassionate and, validate how other people are feeling when they're the people that you're working with. Even if you can't stand what they're saying or you can't stand them, I think it's still important to be dedicated to the cause, which is moving forward and bringing people together and doing better for students in the community. Did that answer that? That was long winded. Sorry, honey.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: If you could create a job description for a school board member, what would you consider the three most important items?

[8732-244] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: poverty. We did a lot with that back in the day. And I think it really needs to come back because you learn something and then it goes away and you stop thinking about it. And it's really important to refresh on so many things.
TEXT> I think it's important for this community to, put initiatives in place, like, I know we have free breakfast and all of that, but I think it's important, again, to look further, than just the food part, which we kind of get stuck on, if that makes any sense at all. I'd really like to just see more more wrap around in five years. I would love to see this district address all the needs of the students, because in reality, parents have less time to spend with their children. We all can agree that we're not their parents, but we we take on that role. We really do as educators. So I think it's important that we know how to address the emotional address, the physical address, the behavioral address,  you know, the trauma address, all of those things. And I think that that's one of the things that's left out the most in most school districts right now. But we we better start getting with the times because it's changing.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I think that answered nine two.

[8732-250] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Michelle Pierce, Ward one' seg | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: I, I don't want to do just that.
TEXT> I think that you're going fair to Midland. I think that we need a lot of work. I think that anything needs work when it's worth it. The fact that you've touched on probably the one most important fact that I hope to hear tonight out of any candidate is the emotional side  or the whole child, which is what I think that we're coming to looking at finally, is, is that it's not just  the curriculum any longer. It's how do we train our staff, how do we train ourselves? How do we train even our children  to deal with the whole person instead of just the educational side? So I'm quite impressed that you seem to press a lot on that. And I think that there are really great things that are going to happen moving forward, the training. But I do believe that before. I believe before anything, that we're going to have to look at teachers and, and, you know, having better salaries and that requires taxes being raised and that requires pretty much being loathed and hated by,  you know,  the general community. However, how are we ever going to put our, our quality there  or even anything if we can't move? And  they are doing lots.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Corey LeClaire and Doctor Goodwin have done fabulous at finding different grants and just different things that are making it better. And so there's lots of I mean, you know,

[8732-286] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: I don't have any,
TEXT> Exception to including Mary, and she did participate. The board does have the right to and I think it's important that the board does listen to a student who represents students. It's not about Mary Ann Lovett. It's about students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[8732-317] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (uncertain - identified by the busin | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah, okay, I would.
TEXT> I'll, based on the the very deliberate, very, very. Deliberately deliberative conversation we just had in there and with three very, very good candidates, it was a really hard choice. And it's a good choice to have to make. But it was it was really great. And I wasn't kidding when I hoped to see the other two on a on a ballot come March. But, on behalf of the board, I'll make the motion that we appoint, Alex to fill the seat until March 2nd.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any further discussion? All in favor?

[8732-368] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: That easy.
TEXT> Marion, on behalf of the board, I want to thank you for your your input. Thank you for the time. It was very, very good to have. Have you in there? Exchanging ideas and, actually contributing a in a very, very meaningful way. So thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Mary. All right.

[8732-380] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yes, please.
TEXT> You approved having an early release day tomorrow. We did not publicize. It that last month. You did? We did not publicize it because we were waiting to hear from. I ready, the company that you had a presentation on last month, and it was critical that the staff had the professional development so they can maximize the data, which is all about students and how we respond to those students. That being said, with less than a week's notice, we had confirmation last week. We had confirmation. In my view, it would be unfair to the parents to give them such short  notice about a a early release day. So I would request that we change that day from November 3rd to Tuesday, November 22nd. Now, that is the last day of school before the Thanksgiving vacation. So the way it would occur is that Stevens High School would be dismissed at 1050. The middle school alumni clock does not bluff in Maple Lab at 12 noon. A modified instructional schedule would be created, including student being served lunch, and the high school and middle school would have training 1130, the 230 and the three elementary school staff 1230 to 330. I know it's just two days before Thanksgiving, but the reality is we've lost a window of opportunity. And so I ready is ready to  provide that professional development.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And I would request that Tuesday, November 22nd, be an early release day. Being on the cusp of Thanksgiving break, I don't think it's going to be that much of

[8732-390] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> And I think it's important, similar to the parents, that our faculty be given plenty of time and start to plan for that. This is all about supporting teachers and maximizing the impact of direction. We're going with our students and our staff, and we need that training.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I guess I'm obviously going to support this. I just want to be sure that with parent teacher conferences coming up, how is that going to affect, dispersing this information

[8732-556] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (says 'when I was the principal of Steve | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Going with it. Can I just.
TEXT> Just want to clarify that about my knowledge of catastrophic aid, for example, a our own building doesn't solve that. For example, if we have a student who moves to the district who requires an hour to accompany them. So you have to pay in our end to be in this person's, they can be in, they can be in the regular school, but you still have to pay that person so that that's an unexpected huge expense. So  and there are some students when, when Chris was here that night, Chris Beza was here, I asked him the question, if we brought all of those kids back, would it cost us more to provide for their individual needs here than where they are? And the answer to that question is yes, because some of those students needs are so intense, right?
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: We never be able to bring them all back.

[8761-25] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: here just recently we've, within the last three months been assessing this list and it's now grown to 21. Claremont is still on this list, but Claremont has long since been a very high risk community for elevated blood leads and childhood lead poisoning prevented.
TEXT> So tonight, I'm going to talk to you a little bit about the history of lead poisoning. So you kind of have to understand how we got in this mess in the first place. I'm going to talk to you about some of the sources of exposure. How are New Hampshire's children being poisoned and what's the impact on their brain? I'm going to talk to you about the long term consequences and the costs and the burdens to our communities and to our school systems. And I'll talk to you about New Hampshire's extremely low testing rates. Children should be tested in universal communities, such at Claremont. All children should be tested in Claremont at age one and age two. And that's not happening in Claremont at the rate that it should. Nor is it happening across our state. And I'll talk to you about both federal legislation, federal law, the EPA's are renovate, repair, renovate, repair, paint law.  I'll also talk to you about recent legislation in New Hampshire. Senate Bill 135, signed by Governor Hassan about a year and a half ago, as well as draft legislation that Senator Felton will be introducing in January, that you have a copy of the latter two having significant impact on this issue.
NEXT> Gail Gans: So before I dive into New Hampshire's statistics, I want to show you a video clip from this documentary called misled. It's about to be released in December, and Division

[8761-28] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes voices in the lead-poisoning documentary  | 2016-11-15
PREV> Guy Santagate: We can't see it.
TEXT> There are no direct, obvious symptom. Her stomach was bothered her she would be. I got a call right back. Jayla needs to be checked into hospital. They really are. No medical treatments, violent. Behavior like deficits. Problems with ADHD. Because brain damage head over the car. It's totally preventable when it happens is irreversible. It's untreatable. This is a national scandal and nobody seems to know about it. My children were poisoned when we did home renovation and hired a contractor we didn't know that he wasn't using Wednesday morning because this is an open plan porch during the exterior, paint the funerals and it's poisoned. Getting high levels of blood test results. The apartment failed. And the town or state or anybody get concerned about it. And I feel like. My whole world's contaminated. I thought he was okay because I wasn't living in a house that was being sanded. This perfect child, my firstborn son, will just never be the same and there's nothing I can do about it. The children tests positive. Both of them did. I'm quite crying because I don't know if I can help you and I want to be able to hold. My son was, you know, was. This amount of contaminated  household dust with lead based paint or cause childhood like poisoning? What I'm finding is that it's actually middle and upper income families that are getting poisoned now, and that these families aren't being tested. Who's the bad guy here?
NEXT> Unidentified: Definitely the lead industry. Dust from paint been identified from early on as a major problem through lobbying and government corruption. Just keep it quiet. So we're doing free blood

[8761-36] Unidentified | Unidentified - voices in the documentary and YouTube video clips playe | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: book for boys and girls. Just going to show you a small clip, but it gives you the best tragic little story. It's a YouTube video, so it can start with an ad. I never know what ad it might be, so bear with me.
TEXT> This is my goals are to be fails. They give away these little informative booklets about how wonderful lead paint was. A magical trip peatland with the Dutch boy painter. There are children flying to their doom. I mean flying to paint land. And how did the Dutch boy conquer Old Man Gloom? He conquered it with wait, wait wait, that's his one flat land. Wait, you mean like paint for kids? You know that's bad, right? And how bad was led?  LED was recognized to kill the children in the early 1900s. So to counter this, the company called the National League Company, thought our paint is 91% lead, pure lead. We're going to knock out our entire paint business. What should we do? They decided, let's come up with a logo instead of national level and call it Dutch Boy Paint. Let's use children as our logo to say how you are and wonderful. Let's show children using our paint. Here's what's for my grandmother's school, where she taught grades one through three. It was like a small school house with a few rooms and they dropped off these, pretending for these to be given to children to take home or to play with a paper for boys and girls.
NEXT> Unidentified: What were they promoting? Ducks LED paint. There's a valuable coupon in the middle of this book. Be sure to give it to your father or mother. This is copyright

[8761-42] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: sure the child is getting the additional medical tests, and is kind of the go between between the pediatrician and the child's family. And we also send out a lead inspector, the test the environment for lead test the paint. We also test the water.
TEXT> We've never had a detection of lead in the water with the children. Have the elevated blood leads. And if the hazards are determined to be in the apartment, then the apartment goes under order, which means the landlord is required to do abatement to remove the hazards from the apartment. But that's not until the blood lead goes to ten. Currently, with our rules based on the old standard. So how much lead does it take to poison a child? When I train parents, this is a little muffin cup and I have sugar in this muffin cup. I have parents wet their fingers and show them that this is how much lead paint dust we're talking about, that if this much lead paint dust is sprinkled in your apartment or your home or your child's crawling. That's what we're talking about. That will poison your child. It is highly, highly toxic. And once it goes in the child's mouth and through their brain, because they have no filter, the damage is irreversible. There is no cure and there is no treatment. This is a poster we have. And I put in eight and a half by 11 in your packet. It's a pretty powerful message. So to take you back to high school biology for a minute only so I can level set so you can understand the damage that it does. We want in a child's brain to have lots of big, beautiful neurons.
NEXT> Gail Gans: And we want insulation, the myelination that looks like those red hot dogs moving along the axon. So the electrical impulses moves seamlessly from one neuron to another. And between

[8761-48] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: in gasoline and then took it out. So we were all part of this social experiment. The green line represents the average lead level blood lead levels in preschool children, reflecting from when we put gas in lead in gas and then took it out.
TEXT> And the blue line is violent crimes per 100,000. And they they mirror or they duplicate each other. It's unusual that you can see blood leads go up. Violent crime goes up. Blood leads come down. Violent crime goes down. And this is another study. This happens to be a British study looking about the number of leading gasoline versus violent crime. So there's significant impact not only to the children themselves, but to our communities and to society. So how are children in New Hampshire getting poisoned? 60% of our housing in New Hampshire was built before lead was banned in residential paint. And in some communities that statistic is higher. So children have a 60% chance of being in a home, apartment, school, child care center, grandmother's house somewhere where there's deteriorating lead paint. They're being poisoned by friction surfaces. Just opening and closing a window or opening and closing a door. That rubbing that friction surface will generate enough of that lead. Paint dust. Rental properties that are not well maintained. Lead in the soil. Lead passing from mother to fetus. Do it yourself. Renovators that don't know about lead paint or how to work safely with it.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Contractors that are not are certified. And a good thing to know in general in your community is 1 in 3 children who are poisoned have had renovations somewhere in

[8761-49] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: that friction surface will generate enough of that lead. Paint dust. Rental properties that are not well maintained. Lead in the soil. Lead passing from mother to fetus. Do it yourself. Renovators that don't know about lead paint or how to work safely with it.
TEXT> Contractors that are not are certified. And a good thing to know in general in your community is 1 in 3 children who are poisoned have had renovations somewhere in their life in the last six months. So 33% of our children are poisoned in an environment where there have been renovations in the last six months. So when I train pediatricians and nurse practitioners, I'm always educating them when they talk to their families. This is a question to be asking. Are there renovations going on? So these are friction surfaces.  Walk up these stairs. Where through the paint. Bring your shoes in the house. You carry in the lead paint dust. This building has a new door, but you can see the paint chipping and the dust that goes into the apartment or house every time the door opens. Just opening and closing the window will generate the dust that can come into the room. And children love to put their hands and look out the window, or put their hands on the window sill. And if they're teething, they may in fact bite the window sill.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Almost always, if we find lead on the exterior of the house. 5060 years of scraping, painting, weathering, ice storms that lead goes into the soil. Almost always the soil

[8761-54] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: And then they bring children through the work site. So it's very unfortunate that we have this cable station that is extremely popular, modeling all the wrong things for our families. So how are we doing in New Hampshire? Our statistics are not so great.
TEXT> As I mentioned, we have between 800 and 1000 poisonings every year, twice the national average. In the 2014 surveillance report,  blood lead surveillance report, which is done every year by Division of Public Health. 37% of the children in New Hampshire schools that had been tested. And you'll soon find out that's highly under-reported. But between first grade and 12th. 37% had had an elevated blood lead, or may still have an elevated blood lead at some point in their lives. 37% and 15% of the five year olds that year who would be going into kindergarten had an elevated blood lead. So American Academy of Pediatrics recommends their guidelines are that children should be tested at age one and age two to have their blood lead level tested. And it makes sense. It's the target time that they're most at risk for exposure. That's the American Academy of Pediatrics guidelines. Unless the states have a different set of guidelines. So in New Hampshire, we have a slightly different set of guidelines. This sheet is in your packet. We use a universal and a targeted approach. Claremont is a universal community. A universal community such as Concord you means high risk community. All children who live there should be tested at one and two. No questions asked. Targeted community means a pediatrician can still test all children at wanting to, or they can use a screening guidelines.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Couple quick questions how old is your house? Your apartment? Are there renovations? Has anyone had an elevated blood lead in the family? A couple quick screening questions to determine

[8761-55] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: universal community such as Concord you means high risk community. All children who live there should be tested at one and two. No questions asked. Targeted community means a pediatrician can still test all children at wanting to, or they can use a screening guidelines.
TEXT> Couple quick questions how old is your house? Your apartment? Are there renovations? Has anyone had an elevated blood lead in the family? A couple quick screening questions to determine risk. The family answers yes or doesn't know they can test. So these are our really prosthetic statistics. Frightening statistics. Actually, in 2014, we had almost 20,000 children in New Hampshire that should have been tested. All the children living in universal communities.  All the children enrolled in Wickes nutrition program. All children are enrolled in Medicaid. It's federal law that children enrolled in Medicaid be tested at one and two, and all children enrolled in Head Start Division of Public Health. Put these little testing device, which I'm going to talk to you about in all of our wit clinics. They do an excellent job with testing and they test all the children and Head Start for us. So this bar graph here really represents universal communities and children enrolled in Medicaid. And in 2014, 26%  of our one year old in New Hampshire were not tested. And look at the statistic 70% of a 70% of our two year olds were not tested.
NEXT> Gail Gans: So I always put this up. This is my daughter, Catherine Aaron getting health form. I love our family provider. We're part of Capital Region Health Care Network. This is

[8761-56] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: this bar graph here really represents universal communities and children enrolled in Medicaid. And in 2014, 26% of our one year old in New Hampshire were not tested. And look at the statistic 70% of a 70% of our two year olds were not tested.
TEXT> So I always put this up. This is my daughter, Catherine Aaron getting health form.  I love our family provider. We're part of Capital Region Health Care Network. This is our immunization record. And I blew up the bottom of this form. Pediatric labs lead level required at age one and two. Because we live in Concord. That rectangle is blank. I have three daughters. I live in a historic property. None of them were ever tested, nor was I asked questions. It's just not getting done in New Hampshire the way it needs to be to protect our children. So how can we be tested? We can send them for a venous draw physician. If they even write, the requisition slip can give a slip to the parent to go to the lab to have a blood drawn. We have slightly higher compliance with that at one because children also have a hemoglobin test an iron test at that time. We have very little compliance with it. If the physician is even writing the test it to because again, the child has no outward symptoms.  So a mother or father had their two year old in the exam room for a half hour. The two year old's been running around tearing it apart. They've had immunizations and they have no outward symptoms of looking L or poisoned.
NEXT> Gail Gans: And the physician says if they even say it, go down and have a venous draw, meaning you have to pin your child down to have blood drawn. So the

[8761-61] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: the story of walking down the hall one day and turning on his heel when he hears one school nurse talking to another school nurse, and she's saying another child with an elevated blood lead, and he turns because he had never heard of this.
TEXT> He didn't know what she meant. And the long short of it, as he goes on to learn all about elevated blood leads and childhood lead poisonings, and he tells the story of getting permission to get all the medical records for all of the children in Rochester, New York's public schools,  and amongst other things, he found that 41% of the children in the special education programs in Rochester, New York, 41% of the children in special education had what, somewhat poisoned. They had elevated blood leads. 41%. The story. He goes on to work with, if you're familiar with it. University of Rochester. University of Rochester. Medical school and medical center. So amazing amount of work in the community without reach, going through and just removing lead in numerous neighborhoods, in apartments, making rental housing, lead safe, testing every child, educating families, and partnering with the medical school in the medical center. It's the story that I wish I could duplicate in numerous towns in New Hampshire. Rochester, New York, if you're not familiar with it, is an old mill town similar to what we have in New Hampshire, in Claremont and in our old mill towns. We have a lot of old rental and a lot of old mill housing. So Ralph.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Spease. Yeah. So action steps. Let's get our children tested. Educate every medical provider you know about the lead. Care to make sure there's results are reported on the health

[8761-62] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: New York, if you're not familiar with it, is an old mill town similar to what we have in New Hampshire, in Claremont and in our old mill towns. We have a lot of old rental and a lot of old mill housing. So Ralph.
TEXT> Spease. Yeah. So action steps. Let's get our children tested. Educate every medical provider you know  about the lead. Care to make sure there's results are reported on the health forms that go to child care center and to public school. Understand what leads neurobehavioral signature is and how those consequences  are long term for children and the communities understand these children are going to need developmental screenings at key points in their development, and they're going to need intervention and support specific to. The abilities that have deficits due to lead poisoning. Educate our teachers, your school nurses, your parents, your community. I look forward to coming back. Test your homes, your schools and your child care centers. Currently, New Hampshire has no regulation that requires that our child care centers be lead paint safe. Ensure that your contractors are certified when they come in  and ask for a building permit. If the house is built before 1978, ask to see their RR certification and if it's an individual homeowner.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Hand them some of the information to educate them so they can protect themselves and their children. Implement rental inspections a tenant changes and report unsafe work practices. When you

[8761-143] Carolyn Towle | City Councilor (recognized 'Yes, Carolyn' seg 275; referred to as 'cou | 2016-11-15
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Behavior issues.
TEXT> So the nurse comes in and lays out a program for what type of,  help right. For the child. Right. Can you tell me what what that is? Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh, sure. Please.

[8761-226] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Could get.
TEXT> To you again. Again. Michelle, you're sitting in front of John's name tag. So I keep, So yes. And that's another piece that we're working not only here to, to make sure our children are tested, but to make sure that it's that our hopes are testing both initially and, you know, started her pregnancy on the basic blood panel and then again at the second trimester when somebody's shedding light.
NEXT> Unidentified: But it's not like you can.

[8761-243] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: Other other.
TEXT> Other funding. Is there funding? Are there programs that would help school districts  sort of target, you know, children six and under for, you know, all the all the kids get tested.
NEXT> Peter Wright: Can I answer that?

[8761-246] Peter Wright |  | 2016-11-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: Yes.
TEXT> I don't think we need another program. Most of the kids that are six and undercover through the Chip program through Medicaid, and they pay for the test. And it's  believe it or not, one of the few tests that Medicaid pays for that actually covers the cost. So I think that if we have a collaborative effort, all we really need to do is get the people here,  we can get a machine, we're going to get one for our office. I don't know if you're contemplating one for the school, but it's really about how we get people here and then we can.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Get those. All right. And I guess that would. Be something we could work on together with with you, with the hospital coming into the schools.

[8761-249] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-11-15
PREV> Peter Wright: 100% committed to working with the city and the school to, you know, create some kind of universal public screening. This is such a big population health, public health, effort. And we know that we're a hotbed, that we're just something we have to do.
TEXT> And really, even though the the the children may be older, there's still a benefit  where it's identified and they know that their environment. Yes. Has that issue that would need to be corrected anyways.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[8761-376] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (mayor asks 'Corey, did you want to ad | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> I think that, there is the need to just have some greater communication between entities, whether it's between the two governing bodies, whether it's between the school district and Southwest community Services, whether it's between city welfare and,  you know, another entity supporting those in poverty. So I think there's some need for that communication flow to happen more. Clearly and timely and just to ensure that everybody knows what others are doing already related to this issue. From the the school side of things, I do see the need for both governing bodies. With all due respect to one, recognize that poverty is an issue in our community. Recognize the impact that that has on our school and timely in this discussion this evening, because it has an impact on our school budget as well. And, and be proactive in addressing some of these things. You know, if somebody were to ask me was the greatest issue that we were in Claremont as it relates to the schools, it always boils down to money in some way, shape or form. And so what we can do as governing bodies in this community to address those issues, to get our kids what they need to be successful, that that's kind of my take on it at this moment. Okay.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8762-31] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs agenda, votes and citizens comments | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Congratulations to. Congrats. Yeah, thanks. Great news. Any questions for our student rep. All right. Thanks. Superintendents report.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8762-35] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: 22, two.
TEXT> Thousand, I beg your pardon. You're correct. And if you look at the fifth bullet from the bottom, you can see that the schools are Berlin Middle School, Claremont Middle School, Franklin, Laconia, Lisbon, Stewart Town Community School and Whitefield Elementary Schools. So very pleased  that  we are going to be receiving support and to assist our our middle school students long before they enter high school to be more aware of the opportunities. We're also working, developing a very strong  partnership, renewing a partnership with River Valley Community College.  You're going to be hearing more of that,  and in more detail.  But we have so many wonderful resources close to us here, and it's important that our students are be given information and, and are aware of the different opportunities  along before they are juniors and seniors in high school. We don't start. We want them to be more informed. And,  and one of the challenges, of course, when you think of education after high school, training after high school is the cost. But there are different opportunities that students can access without going into horrific debt, depending upon their parents own financial situation. So we just want to have our student body be more informed or better informed and start this  in in staggered and age appropriate, great, appropriate format  before they enter Stevens High School. So more information coming.
NEXT> Unidentified: Great.

[8762-39] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: At the University of New Hampshire, 11:00 this Saturday. I was talking to Mary Leavitt before the school board meeting and asking her what's what's going on at Stevens High School, what type of spirit and discussion. And, and she said, it's really quite remarkable.
TEXT> So it's one more example of of our student athletes and also the Claremont community. As measured by the three as the academic, the arts and in this case the athletics. So the proud proud time for Claremont and  we look forward to  this great event this Saturday 11:00 down at the University of New Hampshire. And thank you. Would you like to demonstrate how that finger should be used?
NEXT> Unidentified: I don't think you want me to hear. Okay. Oh.

[8762-182] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: comments from those folks were added to the original documents. So you have and a document that has sort of captured the big ideas from the discussion that evening with also identifying what is currently working in our community and some ideas of what's needed.
TEXT> So this document will be sent to everyone who participated. We can put it up on the website for folks to share. And this will be a, a starting point for us. We are having another event. I believe the date is going to be January 12th. That is in the works as a follow up to this early childhood conversation, to continue with the asset mapping process and to continue to move that project forward. So look for those invitations soon. But if folks are interested in and what the comments were, they can they can find those in this document and we'll get those up on the website. The second piece that I wanted to talk about was the Strategic Action Plan.  We had a forum for that,  a conversation for that on November 3rd. We had another close to 50 people, I believe, in attendance that night. Again, a nice cross-section of our community  and talking about how to, you know, what does our community want to see for our schools and our students moving forward for the next five years and beyond? Again, folks requested that that information be distributed and once collated. And so we've been able to capture the the big ideas, things we want to continue, things we want to change.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Sort of under four categories. Things to build on, nurture and grow. Things we want to improve. Challenge that. Challenges that require us to work together and wishes to make

[8762-213] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Chris Irish: Involved, keep flowing with it.
TEXT> We have a lot of folks in our community who want to be involved, which is really nice. And you can see the support from our community around learning everywhere you look. If you're if you're looking for it, we have, for instance, a lunch conversation tomorrow with folks from Red River who hosted six of our students this summer in an internship program. And how can we  not only continue to promote that program and  have those ongoing internship opportunities with them, but also award them high school credit for the work that they did through an extended learning opportunity, so that it's not for not. We are in conversation with River Valley Community College  around different opportunities for our students as well. So there's many more. Those are just the two off the top of my head that are present in the next 24 hours. And so there's there's lots that we're trying to do to extend learning beyond the traditional four walls of our schools, engaging the community and making learning a community initiative, not just a school initiative. So it was sustainable.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And just one more example of what Corey is talking about. We are we're going to have a meeting with River Valley Community College and to see if we can

[8762-221] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. All right. Yeah. That was.
TEXT> I will say it was very worthwhile listening to business owners and members of the community  talking about what their needs are, talking about what they're looking for  from our students,  and how that's going to help us. Very similar to the the community conversation, help us direct and shape our our future as measured by student readiness.  So it's it's right. Corey does deserve a patent back. A lot of good things happening.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[8762-271] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anyone should discuss them all first and make amendments and accept it for a first read. You want to everyone take a look at public solicitations in the schools.
TEXT> Can I just make a statement about the group of them? A few meetings ago now I think of maybe even about two months ago now. I brought up the idea of adjusting these policies so that we can, open ourselves up to be able to engage with community businesses and organizations to better support and promote our schools. There was language in place in our existing policies that really prevented things from happening. One of the examples we used was, the policy prevented Napa from handing out footballs, toy footballs at one of our football games because of the Napa branding on them and the, advertising that that would be. And so when looking at these policies, we tried to create something that's still ultimately protected the interests of our student and our children, however,  allowed our school greater flexibility and our district greater flexibility to partner with community organizations and businesses to help move us forward, as a learning community. So they're definitely first read policies. We struggled at times with some of the language, trying to find the right language to convey what we were hoping to convey in a manner that everyone understood, not just the three. You know, the three of us in the room when we had the conversation. So, we're hoping that you will scrutinize these with the, you know, a fine lens.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And we did reference the New Hampshire School Board Association's versions of all of these, and also referenced versions of these policies and other school districts that are either in

[8762-317] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Frank.' [58] answering | 2016-11-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: Yeah. Yes. And the, the I believe the example on the school boards association is still almost verbatim the our old one. But we did look at some others and came up with this more succinct draft.
TEXT> So one day at Stevens High School the Gideons arrived. Excuse me the Gideons. And they wanted to distribute Bibles to the students.  And we because they had no prior, we had no idea they were coming. We didn't disallow them for standing out on the sidewalk, which was, and distribute them. But if if I guess what I'm wondering is we're not subject to any kind of spontaneous distributions. They still have to get permission regardless of who they are. And then you make that determination or the administration.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I think we've covered that in number four.

[8762-321] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I agree with Chris' [544]  | 2016-11-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: The administration and I consult and if I have any questions, I seek legal counsel. I want to you we clearly want to do it in the appropriate manner. And it can it can't have any bias at all.
TEXT> Of course, the one thing that we talked about, but I don't think they ever got in on, the number two, the activity is student related. We talked about adding in there or community related. My example was for years the Conservation Commission every year gives free memberships away to the Berry Conservation Camp for any student in the community that applies. I think we when I was on it, we gave away five membership. It's a week long summer vacation camp and we used to get the fliers to the school. Technically, according to policy, they weren't supposed to distribute it to the kids to take home. So that this will allow that. And that to me, is a perfect opportunity of a community thing to give, you know, kids that can't afford camp, an opportunity to go, to go to camp. But with the old policy, we couldn't do that. So.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: See, I would interpret that as student related because it's an opportunity for the students. Right. But I don't know that everybody would.

[8762-322] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Chris Irish: So that this will allow that. And that to me, is a perfect opportunity of a community thing to give, you know, kids that can't afford camp, an opportunity to go, to go to camp. But with the old policy, we couldn't do that. So.
TEXT> See, I would interpret that as student related because it's an opportunity for the students. Right. But I don't know that everybody would.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So that's what I'm thinking. Just because that's the community. It's a community because it's literally a city committee that offers it for free.

[8762-330] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member on flier-policy wording [425-441] | 2016-11-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: So just to clarify, the activity is student and or community related. Is that what you said.
TEXT> Benefit students?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: No, no. The activity benefits students.

[8762-331] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Benefit students?
TEXT> No, no. The activity benefits students.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's what I'm thinking instead of student or community related. But if there is to benefit the students. The objection to.

[8762-332] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member on flier-policy wording [425-441] | 2016-11-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: No, no. The activity benefits students.
TEXT> That's what I'm thinking instead of student or community related. But if there is to benefit the students. The objection to.
NEXT> Chris Irish: That, well, where I was going with it, it was more it wasn't so much about benefiting the student. It was where it was coming from.

[8762-333] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I agree with Chris' [544]  | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: That's what I'm thinking instead of student or community related. But if there is to benefit the students. The objection to.
TEXT> That, well, where I was going with it, it was more it wasn't so much about benefiting the student. It was where it was coming from.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Well, we did.

[8762-339] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Yeah.
TEXT> The only thing I think about in terms of benefit students is you could have something. I'm thinking the community center does a five K  that, the proceeds of the five K go to. An organization that's not necessarily benefiting students. It maybe just benefits the community. That's something because it does benefit the community. We could distribute via the students and through school messenger, but it doesn't necessarily benefit.
NEXT> Unidentified: The do something with regards.

[8762-348] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Move this forward to a second.
TEXT> If I may, just for clarity because I've, I've, I've lost you a bit. So the activity is student related. We're changing that to the activity of student or community related or the activity benefit students. I wasn't clear.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Only still trying to figure out what.

[8762-363] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Right. Okay.
TEXT> And those are the really cut and dry  lens. And the cut and dry ones are becoming few and far between. It's the complex ones of, well, we want our child to be here on these seven days out of a 21 day cycle for these times and this type of communication involved, and we want access to this curriculum.  And can I have a copy of that textbook? And so, what even three years ago was almost a non-existent portion of our work is now becoming a much  larger.
NEXT> Chris Irish: We basically now being asked to provide personal learning plans for homeschooled students. I mean, in a nutshell, that's part of what we're doing. We're participating in a personal learning

[8762-444] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: I apologize, but I am going to have to leave. It's almost. Done. That time.
TEXT> So may I go on Brian? Procedural safeguards for children with disabilities. This basically provides, a declarative statement that a child with disabilities that their parents and the children will be guaranteed they are appropriate procedural safeguards and rights,  with special education per per the code. Yes, sir.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's that's a normal part of any special ed meeting or 504 meeting where they receive the parents sign off, that they've received their procedural safeguards. There's they sign off

[8794-10] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School student representative reading the  | 2016-12-07
PREV> Chris Irish: All in favor? Opposed? Student representatives report.
TEXT> So from S.H. s  on November 17th. A number of shows. Freshman girls attended a New Hampshire High tech women ambassador day at Lebanon High School. There were six different speakers representing labs Fear Harbor, therm, D.H., MC, Thayer School of Engineering, and Timken. They were all female engineers, scientists, and researchers. The event targets ninth grade girls as a way to encourage females to consider future Stem related fields. On November 17th, SHC students were honored for their summer internships with Red River. A luncheon was held that included the students, along with Saw administration and members of the Red River organization. The luncheon was catered by our very own sugar River Valley Technical Culinary Arts students and chef. We are looking to expand this partnership and how we can support student learning and grow through this program organized by Red River students who are participating in this program were Jessie Barrel, Allison Ngum, Andrew Friend, Ashley Brown, Steven Bosniak, and Christian Page. For third year in a row, Stevens has received a $500 donation from ExxonMobil for our local mobile dealer on Pleasant Street. We would like to extend our deepest gratitude for their continued support of our programs by mobile. This year's check will go to the science department to purchase additional equipment. In December, the Key Club will be partnering with the Elks to send greeting cards.
NEXT> Unidentified: The Vets at Walter Reed hospital. In addition to the Key Club, will also be out in force, ringing bells at Wishing Wells around town. Last year, the Key Club

[8794-11] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School student representative reading the  | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: We would like to extend our deepest gratitude for their continued support of our programs by mobile. This year's check will go to the science department to purchase additional equipment. In December, the Key Club will be partnering with the Elks to send greeting cards.
TEXT> The Vets at Walter Reed hospital. In addition to the Key Club, will also be out in force, ringing bells at Wishing Wells around town. Last year, the Key Club shattered the high water mark with the amount they helped the counties raised. However, records are made to be broken.  Also shout out to the girls basketball team, who has a starting record of two zero this season. And from Mr. Chariot Maple Ave, Maple had a pizza party titled one Cliff night, which is Children's Literacy Foundation. On December 1st they had about 150 in attendance. The event featured a pizza meal, a guest speaker who talked to parents about ways to share a book, and a free book giveaway for parents. Parents elected to two books for their children and the books were wrapped by Maple Avenue staff. Meanwhile, our PTO took all children and attendance and had a small Christmas shopping store, arts and crafts, and a movie while parents while attending the education session. The evening concluded with their cliff speaker reading a story to everyone, while modeling some of the techniques shared in education session. It was a wonderful evening engagement of parents and community.  Also, three teachers at Maple Ave School were awarded Cliff mini grants to purchase books related to the units of study.
NEXT> Unidentified: The teachers who were these grants were. Iris had a shell which was kindergarten, Kaylee Crockett, which was grade two, and Lisa Holtz, which is grade three. Miss Filene's class

[8794-18] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Awesome.
TEXT> Michelle represents one of many, and certainly another reason to be proud of of Claremont.  There's also several reasons to be proud of Claremont. And that's measured by our by our students.  And that's why we are making a very sincere effort to be of support to our students and to provide them with a greater awareness of opportunities. And there is at your place, an article, two sided article. School counselors boost students college financial aid chances, a study finds. And and what's interesting is this one of our goals, a five year goal toward excellence is to  have up to 75% or more of our students be involved with college applications and and to accept. And the goal isn't to push a student toward college, but to make them more aware of the opportunities and how one goes  to that place of higher learning. Because I think you've heard me say before, since the 2008 financial implosion in our country, there have been several jobs created in New Hampshire. 99% of those jobs require skills that will be accrued or acquired after high school. In other words, a high school diploma is important, and the skills and the education of a public education very important. But those jobs require skills that would necessitate additional training. So that's why it's important to provide students with this opportunity. Looking at this article.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: What's interesting is says meeting one on one with a student school counselor to discuss college admissions or financial aid makes a big difference in students futures, tripling the chance

[8794-19] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: other words, a high school diploma is important, and the skills and the education of a public education very important. But those jobs require skills that would necessitate additional training. So that's why it's important to provide students with this opportunity. Looking at this article.
TEXT> What's interesting is says meeting one on one with a student school counselor to discuss college admissions or financial aid makes a big difference in students futures, tripling the chance they'll attend college, doubling the chance that they'll attend a four year college as increasing nearly seven times the likelihood that they'll apply for financial aid, according to a study published today. So I think it's very important to to acknowledge that  our three councilors at the high school Malia King, Amalia Ryans and Tyler Cederberg, working with the administration and the faculty, do have a commitment to build relationships with  our students  as well as to  work with them over a four year period, preparing them for some important decisions. It's also important to note that Susan Taylor and Felicia Harvey of the Middle School likewise  are working in conjunction with the high school to have students become more aware of the different resources. Tonight you're going to hear a a presentation Pathway to Success, which is an opportunity for Steven's high school students, as well as River Valley Community College, a technology program to  be given the the the really exciting time of applying and being accepted to taking courses over a four year period as high school students and acquiring associate degree status as far as credits that would be equal to one year of an associate  degree.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: College experience. So very interested in pathway to success. And and it's one of the many steps we're taking working with River Valley Community College to partner and provide greater

[8794-20] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: be given the the the really exciting time of applying and being accepted to taking courses over a four year period as high school students and acquiring associate degree status as far as credits that would be equal to one year of an associate degree.
TEXT> College experience. So very interested in pathway to success. And and it's one of the many steps we're taking working with River Valley Community College to partner and provide greater experiences and opportunities for our students.  Tomorrow is the Stevens High School concert. We're celebrating  the fine arts tomorrow. Tonight we're celebrating celebrating our student athletes with the Division three champions. We're also celebrating tonight,  an opportunity to recognize one of two students in the state of New Hampshire.  And you have before you,  a publication, United States Senate youth program. And in this program, you have  an email  from  Ray Gilford, program director of the United States Senate Youth Program. Addressed to Doctor Berry. And and, this speaks about none other than Marion Lovett. And I would ask Doctor Barry, could you come forward and recognize and assist us in acknowledging the accomplishment  of Berry and Lovett.
NEXT> Unidentified: Which is.

[8794-30] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'I would ask Doctor Ba | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Have to.
TEXT> Yes. I just, just wanted to say that from the Department of Education. I got a really nice Friday afternoon call, and they give the principal the opportunity to be the one to tell the student. So that was a great way to end my week. And what I was told up there was that what a lovely young lady who held herself with such a plum, such confidence, such maturity, that she was just the ideal candidate for this program, and one of only 140 in the entire nation are going on this youth. Week in D.C. and it comes with an all expenses paid week and a $5,000 scholarship. So congratulations.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So great. So I'm going to conclude by saying that, school districts that really are moving forward don't talk about what the adults are doing. We talk about what our

[8794-31] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Patricia Barry: confidence, such maturity, that she was just the ideal candidate for this program, and one of only 140 in the entire nation are going on this youth. Week in D.C. and it comes with an all expenses paid week and a $5,000 scholarship. So congratulations.
TEXT> So great. So I'm going to conclude by saying that,  school districts that really are moving forward don't talk about what the adults are doing. We talk about what our students are doing in the arts, in the academics and in the athletics, the three A's, because a measure of a outstanding growing school district is focusing on  our accomplishments of our students. It's also focusing on how we respond when students are not being successful, to help them down that path toward greater success, because it's not okay to have anyone slip through the cracks. And so tonight, I couldn't be prouder to talk about the three A's and to demonstrate to the community just what Claremont is all about. As measured by our students. Mr. chairman, that concludes my presentation.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Thank you. It's a.

[8794-36] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Chris Irish: had with with Principal Barry. It kind of grew from there. So the first thing I'd like to read is a proclamation from the Claremont School Board, Claremont, New Hampshire School Board proclamation in recognition of Stevens High School football Cardinals Division three state championship.
TEXT> Whereas we realize that participation in organized athletics helps to build character and teaches a wholesome sense of fair play and good sportsmanship and sportsmanship among our youth. And whereas to really excel in any sport, a person must demonstrate, in addition to a great deal of natural ability, an outstanding spirit of dedication, enthusiasm, hard work, and whereas an amazing example of this has been brought to our attention in the achievement of the Stevens High School football team, capturing the 2016 Division three state championship. Therefore, the Claremont School Board takes great pleasure in recognizing the significant athleticism, sportsmanship and accomplishment of the Stevens High School Cardinal football team in achieving success with winning the state championship title, and herewith offers our senior congratulations and appreciations. Thank you for that. And I also received. Jerry Maslin is a good friend of mine, and we would all sit together at the games, and halfway through the season, we realized we were kind of sitting on the wrong side of the field. But what I realized, I'm very what's the word? I was really nervous to change my pattern because you guys were winning and it was really going superstitious.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So from that moment on, I kept sitting there on purpose. I wasn't moving, I never took the wristband off, I wasn't changing, so we were on the wrong side,

[8794-42] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Chris Irish: for this, right? So I ended up I was directed towards Doolittle Printing. So I talked to Mike and he told me what size we talked about, what I wanted to do, and he finally called me back and said, well, the price is this.
TEXT> He said, but we'd really like to donate it to the team. So this was donated by Doolittle Printing because of what you guys did for this community. I think it's just that speaks to the volume. I know you got the shirts from the Ink Factory. I know,  tavern on the square fed you, and I'm. I got a hunch you haven't seen the last of this. We've got some stuff from us. So? So this on behalf of the school.
NEXT> Unidentified: Board.

[8794-53] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Paul Silva: Turn it around and hold him. Are you at night?
TEXT> So there's two other pieces to this puzzle. Like I said, I wanted to create for you guys a time capsule of sorts. Because you know how it is. You know, there's a bunch of old pictures you guys see in the in the hallway all the time from a thousand years ago. You guys are going to be those guys, you know? So I want it to be something cool. So I want I want one of the East End up in there. And then miss LeClaire has offered. She gave up her finger. That's going to go in there. Principal Berry has a red wig. I believe it's going to go in there. And I get to finally take this thing off, because I haven't dared take it off until you guys won the whole thing that's going in there. So, you know, on behalf of the school board, on behalf of the community of Claremont, and really on behalf of myself as a graduate in 83, you know, I got to see all of you guys. You guys did something truly inspirational to me. It wasn't just about the game. It wasn't about that Sophie. It was especially the Banana game.
NEXT> Chris Irish: What you guys showed at heart and soul. And I got to tell you what I saw throughout the year the sportsmanship, the class, the way you guys treated the

[8794-63] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Somebody posted.
TEXT> Pictures when they all started with the kids. Okay, so next on the agenda is. Pathway to Success program. Oh, go for it. I'm sorry.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Charlene.

[8794-65] Charlene Lovett | Public commenter, parent of student Marion Lovett (chair: 'Charlene.'  | 2016-12-07
PREV> Cory LeClair: Charlene.
TEXT> Love it. I want to thank you for recognizing Marion being accepted into the United States Youth Senate program.  But I also wanted to bring to your attention that life is all about creating opportunity for people to excel.  And I have to give my hats off to Principal Barry, because this program is something that the principal has to nominate a student for. And when Mary and I were down at the Department of Education, and when she was going through the finalist interviews and I was talking to some of the other finalists, I asked them, how did you  hear about this program in order to apply? Because as an application process and an interview process, if you make the finals and some of the students there, and this is open to juniors and seniors, mostly seniors, but some juniors do apply. And unfortunately, some of those kids told me  that, they heard about it through a friend who had been in the program, but not from the principal. So I have to tell you, this opportunity for Marion  would not have come along  had it not been for Principal Barry taking the time to think about who should she nominate for this program? It's very competitive.  And and it's because of her that this happened for Marion. So I want to say thank you to Principal Barry.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[8794-85] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Alex Herzog: It's my pleasure.
TEXT> Is the. I've been very involved over the last many years to build what we call it future workforce talent. Start early. We we have a lot of great programs as building the pathway. Everybody here probably is familiar with the running a start. We also offer Catch the wave that  allows our students in high school to take college classes at the college and receive college credits. This new initiative that we call it a pathway to success. The idea behind that one is we start with the incoming first year high school. To give them a break, we let them do their own stuff the first term because, you know, this new environment for high school students and, you don't want to overwhelm them too much. But the second semester, they actually start taking the first college course. And then in the sophomore year, they take one college course every semester. And in the junior year, two two and the senior year two, two and summer, perhaps internship. Assuming assuming that we can raise the money. You're thinking about taking a cohort of 20 students and take them through four years.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: By the time they graduate from high school, assuming that everything goes well, they have already finished more than one year of college credits. And I can just invision that

[8794-89] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: Dean of you and Manchester, I have not talked to them, but I'm sure they're going to be okay with that. To do two plus two, that they can graduate from River Valley and then finish their two years in other colleges, four year colleges.
TEXT> Every course that they take is a college course and is going to be transferable to, you know, colleges and universities around the country. I'm going to stop here and see if you have any questions. It's amazing program. Not because we designed it is just another help to try. I think part of the mission of our mission, and also your mission is to remove barriers. Right. Somebody mentioned that one again. Mel mentioned that one in our meeting a couple of hours ago. We are trying to remove the barriers in front of the students, especially when it comes to financial barriers. And this  program allows the students to go successfully through it. With the only cost of about $3,000 to the student, not to the student per student. The goal is for the students to be free of charge, assuming that we can raise money. And you had a good conversation this morning. Doctor Herzog, myself and our CFO are you had a good conversation about seeing that if there is a possibility for River Valley to use part of a scholarship money that we have, there's no guarantee on that.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: But the goal is to do that, and we're just going to be looking for some, other donors to support this program. Ideally, it should be. I don't really like

[8794-90] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: you had a good conversation this morning. Doctor Herzog, myself and our CFO are you had a good conversation about seeing that if there is a possibility for River Valley to use part of a scholarship money that we have, there's no guarantee on that.
TEXT> But the goal is to do that, and we're just going to be looking for some, other donors to support this program. Ideally, it should be. I don't really like to see that cohort goes through, and there is a empty gap after that. If we decide that this is a successful, then we can raise enough money following year. The next cohort comes and following it the next core. But at least for now, we want to get sort of like a funding that is going to do a lot of these 20 students to go for it.  And the plan is, I think sometimes around February, March, you're working with middle schools, you know,  principal and other team members to see if we can bring them to  River Valley Community College, parents and the students. To tell them about the program, at least because they have to get excited about it at that time in order to register. For courses when they start. In the high school students. I also have presented it to Newport, you know, school system.  In fact, I'm presenting this program to them. They're board meeting tomorrow night. But I think it's a great program, especially for our students in the Stevens. It's a great program for them.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Can I add that, doctor? And this week he we had about 60 middle school students, some from Newport, many from Claremont Middle School, and putting together ten computers. They

[8794-91] Alex Herzog |  | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: students. I also have presented it to Newport, you know, school system. In fact, I'm presenting this program to them. They're board meeting tomorrow night. But I think it's a great program, especially for our students in the Stevens. It's a great program for them.
TEXT> Can I add that, doctor?  And this week he we had about 60 middle school students, some from Newport, many from Claremont Middle School, and putting together ten computers. They broke up in teams. They worked with college students and they built computers. And they got the they got to ring a bell if theirs was the first one to ring in. It was a really great experience and the kids just loved them. We hopped them up on sugar donuts and they were just techies.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: We let the parents worry after they get home to worry about the sugar level. I know I didn't get a chance to talk to you guys, but I saw

[8794-96] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: To students.
TEXT> Yeah. The good news or bad news depends on how you look at it is a I have doctorate in computer science, and I've done computer science for a while,  and a  last job before I came to River Valley. I worked at a, I called it one of the coolest companies in New Hampshire and fastest growing private company in the Manchester called dying. And, I can actually represent or talk to the students and show them the importance of information technology and business. The goal is, with your help, the team's help, starting January, February, we have to do few visits. It would be nice to go to middle school and present, but I also like, at the same time to bring the students that they can come and see all the student services or Success center, all the great things that we are doing at River Valley to come and see it, and more and more we're going to explain to them. But again, reality is not everybody from middle school that's graduating is going to go to technology. What they need to understand this can be implemented in other majors. I have talked to my chairs and the chairs actually, they know this is a pilot program, but nothing is going to stop us from doing. I'm not going to promise right now especially there's something blinking down there.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: It says on the air there, but there's nothing. It's going to stop us from doing physical therapy. Doing occupational therapy. All those great majors that we have. I can't

[8794-99] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Patrick Adrian: No.
TEXT> It's going to be yeah, marketing is very, very important. How do we market that? And one of the things that gets me excited is because the support that the school is going to provide together, I'm sure we're going to manage to provide enough information to these students who realize what a great opportunity is for them. Imagine you finish the high school and you already done more than a year, not even assuming that everybody goes based on the schedule. The challenge is going to be, which I know your email said that you're going to start having some conversation. The challenge is to do those courses to become, dual dual credits, because right now those courses are going to be college courses. But if we can do something that  students doesn't have to worry about. Oh, wait a moment. If I take that, then I have to go do another course here if we can manage. And I think your curriculum, a person is going to meet with our faculty, try to figure out how can we do that? The students does one thing gets credit for both, similar to running.
NEXT> Unidentified: This stuff.

[8794-103] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Quick question. I'm just really cool idea from a cost standpoint when you're talking that $3,000 per student, is that for the year or is that for the entire.
TEXT> Well, for each student is for four years.
NEXT> Unidentified: That $3,000 is also going to cost for four years.

[8794-117] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: And so these conversations, there are a lot of steps, as Corey just said, between a four year degree and some of these programs, that and licenses certificates that kids become immediately employable and at a really good rate of pay, very, very livable wages.
TEXT> I want to also add what Frank said and what the Corey said. This is again is not done deal. Yet one of the  head of our students success under Doctor Herzog  and my associate VP from Lebanon. Lebanon location. You're actually working designing a course  that you don't have a name for it yet. For now, I call it career exploration. My hope is to that course to be one of the first couple of courses of many of our majors, that the students that get exposed to Korea are. In fact, I had a program in Manchester that I took our students, high school students that were taking college courses with me. I took them to different companies. They came to dine. They came to Silver Lake. They went to, you know, Dean Carmen's company. Then after a while, after the third course, there were students coming and saying that I cannot see myself programing computer programing eight hours a day. What the goal was and met the goal was to expose them to different opportunities. They can decide. You know, I don't want to have anything to do with this one, but they wouldn't know that one until they get exposed.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: Therefore, that course when it's designed by these two individuals, it's going to be a great course. It's going to be offered as part of this particular program is not

[8794-123] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Do.
TEXT> To expose students to different opportunities, to have to be more aware. And in certain cases, as was just said, provide them opportunity to acquire skills either immediately after high school or through Valley Community College during the high school experience. So where I'm going with this is that we're not adding a layer here. We're not adding one more thing that we're going to do. This fits in beautifully with the direction during our five year plan toward excellence. And it is about, as I said earlier this evening, it's about students.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: And one thing that you were talking you were talking about costs everybody. All of a sudden I realized that I need to tell you that I didn't even think

[8794-126] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Chris Irish: Stevens, and it was huge for her. When she walked into Nht, she was already hitting the ground running more than most. And that was it was a good thing. I wish more kids would take advantage of that. More parents take advantage of that.
TEXT> I'm glad you mentioned parents, because one of the things Doctor Herzog and the team we have been talking about is we keep concentrating on the students, the students, you know, that age. You know, I have two daughters that age a long time ago. They don't really see the big picture. They don't see the light at the end of the tunnel.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[8794-146] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: We have.
TEXT> It in town here, you know, to maximize that resource. Well, this is a huge benefit anywhere to having a Cisco certified testing facility, right? Right. That's a huge plus to have local for those kids. And that's that's the big if they can get that certification before they got out of high school there, the Red River of the world will pay for the rest. And that's that's the certifications. Nowadays. On the networking side, specialty is the big part.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I.

[8794-158] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. How about.
TEXT> Mr. Chairman? Vice chairman, if I can just,  just for a moment, the cake I'm holding. Is is the cake that Pat Berry brought in recognition of Marion Lovett's accomplishment. And as I said earlier, the documentation regarding this wonderful program that Marion, one of two students in New Hampshire, was recognized for. This is our way of celebrating. So, Marion, this may be an this may be an unprecedented moment, but I'm not sure when the last superintendent held up a piece of cake in celebration of one of our students. But it is all about students.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: If you don't eat it.

[8794-162] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Sprague: 'as Corey just said' [227] a | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: maybe cross over if they can meet them. Well, they're doing that work of their going to work on some of these tech center classes to see if they can get, you know, maybe work in English credit in if somebody is up here. Okay.
TEXT> That's already started actually  this year. And so they are in the process. And Pat may be able to speak to this a little bit more eloquently than I can, but in the process of looking at tech, English and tech math and embedded credits for the courses taken over here and how we how we work on that. So we're really, with the introduction of a curriculum specialist position at the high school, we have the capacity to better explore nontraditional learning opportunities for our kids to meet our students needs, whether it be embedded credits, whether it be, college courses at the high school level, whether it be extended learning opportunities we have a few students right now pursuing allows very robust yellows to gain credit for things that we don't typically offer. Agriculture is one of the fields. And so we're we're very much expanding beyond the brick and mortar walls of the high school to better meet the needs of our kids. And just starting I mean, this we're really just starting, but we have a lot underway.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[8815-28] Marion Lovett | Stevens High School student representative (superintendent: 'I think M | 2016-12-21
PREV> Marion Lovett: not getting a coffee from the theater department in the morning or missing out on food during lunch. It's really heartwarming. And then from the elementary schools. Dessner chorus members visited Elmwood home on Monday to spread some holiday cheer and share their musical talents.
TEXT> Dessner students and staff are excited to attend the shows holiday concert on Thursday. We are looking forward to our school assemblies on Friday, where our monthly student and staff wards will be given out, and then from Maple Ave, the Maple Avenue teachers Brian Kane, which is grade five, and Brittany McAuliffe, which is grade four, organize a student service project with their classes to have a food drive. Maple Avenue collected over 700 items that will be delivered to the local food pantry this week. We are very proud of our students commitment and understanding of the needs in the community. Then for chefs sports, the boys basketball is three zero, which is a good record to have. And then the girls basketball is three and two, and then bowling is actually undefeated so far. And last week they beat one of the top teams in the division. So they're looking towards playoffs with high hopes of doing well. That's all I have for you guys.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah.

[8815-37] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Pierce: 'Straight there, Chris.' [3 | 2016-12-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: I already emailed so perfect asked to see if we can get it because I haven't seen it yet either.
TEXT> It'd be good to do it at the next meeting. So we publicize on CCTV. Have you guys done? I'm done because I wanted to piggyback on the piggyback, and I just, Because it's been a pretty it's it's been an amazing year for our student athletes as well as we all know, for a lot of different reasons. And I say student athletes because I think Frank just hit on it. I think it's everything is having an effect. And success is feeding on success academically and athletically. And we're seeing the fruits of those laborers. And I think it's really cool. So what I wanted to do is just share. There's been a lot of words that have been handed down from the state for a lot of our,  our fall athletes and coaches, and I just wanted to go down the list to make sure they all got recognized from this level. So for football, all state offense, we had quarterback Henry Bourque, running back Richard Bell, wide receiver Parker Smith in offensive line, Aidan Cahill for a Division three North second team. We had Nick Stone at offensive line and Chris Lafont offensive line, and then on defense we had North first. So yeah, for the North first team was Zach Brian, North second team was Joe Desolate, Nick O'Brien and Zach Stanhope.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So that was football for girls soccer all state. We had Jasmine Griffith who made Division three first team, Kelsey Kelsey Belisle made honorable mention for Division three and Bethany

[8815-45] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [63-71]; 'Middleton.' [ | 2016-12-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the academics, the arts and the athletics were alive and well. And the ship is turning. And it's very exciting. It's very exciting. I'm also very pleased to tell the community that we are wrapping up our collective bargaining with our respective units or associations.
TEXT> And, we're very pleased that we're coming to closure and have reached agreements, and we'll be discussing that more publicly in early January. And last but not least, tonight we're going to be spending time on on our budget. It's going to be our first look.  And I think it's going to be important as we go forward with this first look to. Take a hard look at the way we are, and then to also have some clarification as we plan for the meetings in January, but a great deal to be proud of as we wrap up 2016. Great deal to be proud of as measured by our students.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Any questions for the superintendent? And thank you for your report.

[8815-52] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [63-71]; 'Middleton.' [ | 2016-12-21
PREV> Michelle Pierce: in their their office now, and we have a space where we're going to try to start showcasing art, from the general public and then the schools. So we're, we're in process of trying to get that work through. So hopefully you'll be able to.
TEXT> We've we've had art shows at the opera house before.  We also have demonstrations of student artwork on our, on our website, but  I,  I'm not satisfied that we're doing enough because there is a great deal to be proud of with our student artwork. I think Marion Lovett wants to say something.
NEXT> Chris Irish: To.

[8815-347] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Thank you. Corey.' [6] -> tak | 2016-12-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: in that building. That was done at bluff as well, and I believe the plan is to go through with more of fine tooth comb and other schools as we move forward to ensure that the pair coverage matches what is required in the IEP.
TEXT> And I think when we we meet next time, I hope that, Chris can be here to speak to what the needs are currently of the students  and what the needs of the students from preschool coming into kindergarten are, because I think that that will be a significant part of the conversation moving forward. And we're talking about the number of paraprofessional staff needed.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: For Chris does plan to be here on the fourth.

[8815-480] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Thank you. Corey.' [6] -> tak | 2016-12-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks. Thank you.
TEXT> The next two are both for the one for all space that we have at 169 Main Street. One is from the New Hampshire Charitable Foundation and anonymous donor for $2,000. And the second is from the Greater Claremont Board of Realtors. For  $1,100. And the reason I asked to do these separate from the first so the board of Realtors was a complete and really nice surprise. They took a vote, I believe is the way I understand it. And they chose to give this to us for the one for all space to use to support our families and our students. We didn't expect that one to be coming at all. So that was really gracious of them. And, it's nice to have the second with the New Hampshire Charitable Foundation is we are in the process of establishing, a licensed spot for our high school students who have babies to have care for their babies so they can attend their high school program. This would happen at the one for all space. And so we have submitted the licensing application to the state to be a licensed daycare provider. Mike and I have some details to work out still, but the goal is to have that space licensed for up to four  infants. Right now, we have identified at least three infants, of our current high school students.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And it would hopefully, for all intents and purposes, be self-funding because we can apply to the state for childcare reimbursement for each one of those children on a full

[8815-481] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Thank you. Corey.' [6] -> tak | 2016-12-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: to be a licensed daycare provider. Mike and I have some details to work out still, but the goal is to have that space licensed for up to four infants. Right now, we have identified at least three infants, of our current high school students.
TEXT> And it would hopefully, for all intents and purposes, be self-funding because we can apply to the state for childcare reimbursement for each one of those children on a full time basis. We would budget for that accordingly. And these grant funds  will be used to offset any other ancillary costs, because we would have to have a staff person there to be able to provide that care. We're still working out the details, as I mentioned, looking to have sort of a cooperative component in place where if you are a high school student with a with an infant and you need to care for that infant you are, you can bring your infant to us. But there's a parenting, training part that you need to participate in and working out what those details look like. So they,  they, get to complete their high school program. We get graduates on the books as opposed to drop outs.  And there's a parenting component for them to support them as parents as they are now parents. So we've identified a few children, a few students already. We've been talking with them. And so this is in the work. So these grant funds that we've received and donations that we have received from New Hampshire Charitable and the board of realtor will go toward supporting our ability to have our high school students complete their program. In graduate school.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Motion.

[8845-32] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-47]; 'Fiscal year 1 | 2017-01-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: I know.
TEXT> That guy. Yes. Spoke. Our intention is to provide a personalized education experience for each student who walks through our doors. And. Doctor Ali made the comment, we need to make sure our programs and certifications are market driven. When we develop a new offering, it shouldn't be in a vacuum. It should be in partnership. That means we need to listen to make sure we're providing the education and skills so students are ready when they get the job. So I'm going to pass this around to you. But what's very, very important to me about this publication,  is that this is exactly why the Claremont School District  is partnering and building a stronger relationship with River Valley Community College, because what  Alex Herzog and his colleagues stated is exactly the direction the Claremont School District is moving forward. So congratulations to River Valley Community College. Alex didn't know I was going to be a market spokesman for the college, but I think it's wonderful. I think it's wonderful. And it speaks about,  the community college system. It also speaks about Claremont. And  that concludes my brief comments tonight.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Any questions for the superintendent? Okay. I guess we'll open up for citizens comments. Seeing none, we'll close citizens comments. And we're going to take a break for

[8845-78] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-47]; 'Fiscal year 1 | 2017-01-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the reason I'm talking to you about this is twofold. One is I it's just important for the community to understand that the Claremont School Board and Claremont School Board members, before you have been very diligent in the effort of maintaining a reasonable increase.
TEXT> But there's another thing sidebar here, too, which is because of us maintaining  a budget that has resulted in the default budget being larger than the budget, which normally the default budget is smaller because the expectation is the budget will increase at a greater rate than default. But just the opposite has occurred. We are lean. We do not have  a great deal of  of direction to  reduce the budget because we have been compressing. We've been through a restructuring. We haven't been eliminating programs lest the program wasn't warranted. So that being said, over a period of fiscal year 13, the fiscal year 17, the budget has increased 1.57%. It still has an impact on the tax rate, among other factors. But I I'm pleased and certainly appreciative of the school board with the effort to try to maintain a reasonable budget. But in the same light, you have a legal responsibility to provide for the education of our children. And so you're between sort of a rock and a hard place. You're the stewards of the taxpayers dollars, but you're also responsible to provide an adequate education for children legally. And sometimes those two can feel a little polarized. What are the challenges we are facing now?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Is public school adequacy a and for the next several years and less this changes, there will be a reduction in Claremont's adequacy aid, a 4% incremental reductions. And you

[8845-79] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-47]; 'Fiscal year 1 | 2017-01-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: between sort of a rock and a hard place. You're the stewards of the taxpayers dollars, but you're also responsible to provide an adequate education for children legally. And sometimes those two can feel a little polarized. What are the challenges we are facing now?
TEXT> Is public school adequacy a and for the next several years and less this changes, there will be a reduction in Claremont's adequacy aid, a 4% incremental reductions. And you can see just talk about the next four years if this remains unchanged every year, Claremont will see a reduction. And as we attempt to keep the budget reasonable, if we had that reduction in adequacy, a, then clearly we are either going to make some major changes with instructional programs or opportunities for students, or we're going to expect the taxpayer to make up the difference. That's very challenging in a community where revenue is a problem. The hope is that that Claremont and several other communities are joining together, working with the state legislatures. And I believe, Patrick, I read something about you being involved with making some contact with some of the state legislators just to make them sensitive. We have a serious problem. So that being said. Clearly, even though there is this challenge of adequacy aid, you still legally bound and have the responsibility for educational quality. And in fact, you have a fiscal responsibility as being responsible for how the taxpayers dollars are spent and the quantity that are spent. So you're in a position where you are responsible for the education of the children, but in the same light, you you feel a breathing down your neck about the tax rate. And so how do we balance that?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Well, in some cases we don't balance it. But I think what's critical is that we maintain ongoing communication with the community as, which is exactly what we are doing

[8845-80] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-47]; 'Fiscal year 1 | 2017-01-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: and the quantity that are spent. So you're in a position where you are responsible for the education of the children, but in the same light, you you feel a breathing down your neck about the tax rate. And so how do we balance that?
TEXT> Well, in some cases we don't balance it. But I think what's critical is that we maintain  ongoing communication with the community as, which is exactly what we are doing with the budget, what our budget increases are, how we're attempting to mitigate that impact on on the  on the tax rate may minimize that impact on the resident and the homeowner. And so these PowerPoint presentations for me are to provide information for the community that we are sensitive to the tax rate and we are sensitive to the budget, but we also have a responsibility to the children of this community. As of today, the $1 million budget that you saw in December 21st, 2016, the first draft is now 552 $553,000 larger than the current year. Last month it was a million more.  Some of this has been done by identifying some errors. Some of it has been making some strategic adjustments. But I will tell you that this $552,000 increase represents a 1.7% percent, 1.76% increase. It's important to emphasize that we're not done yet because it does not include the collective bargaining increases. So January 11th, 2017,  the administration, the principals, the administration are going to present recommendations to the school board regarding  the fiscal year 18 budget. And in this case, we're going to make an effort to take the $553,000 increase, adding the collective bargaining to that, and then how we can offset that with some strategic restructuring. You've heard me say before.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The worst thing you can do with a budget is just to reduce it as if it was a math problem, because every reduction has an impact. Our goal is

[8845-82] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-47]; 'Fiscal year 1 | 2017-01-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: toward the end of January. By the way, you need to reduce the budget more. So we need to have a sense that we are we're going is an attempt to minimize the impact on the tax rate unless we hear differently from the board.
TEXT> So January 11th is when a week from tonight is when we'll have a public hearing and when we will be discussing some strategic changes. And those strategic changes,  once again, are going to be focusing on not compromising the education of our students.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Who wants to get this started, Frank?

[8845-330] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (O'Neill: 'Chris, you said you sent  | 2017-01-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Think in addition to that, if there are classes that are taking place here that can be used for credits at the high.
TEXT> School,  Corey's on that. That's what I'm dual enrollments and things like that and even even what what Ali gave to us, I said it publicly. I have no that does not belong at the high school. That program he's talking about, catch the Wave belongs to the high school. I'd rather see his focus effort on making that successful before we go to a whole new program. Catch the wave hasn't even been close to many. Utilize the way it should last. I knew once one student, my daughter, went through it and it was hugely successful. So we get 100 students. That's 100 successes versus. But that program that he identified to me is 100% a tech center program that we should have an IT program to jive with that, to send those kids over there. But how do we get there? Is the unknown.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Well, I think the foundation is being laid as we speak with a publication image, the presentation by Doctor Ali. I know we're not there yet, but but it's it's

[8873-6] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (budget hearing presentation [4-40]; Sprague add | 2017-01-11
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: over 300 students. But it's not just a Claremont issue. If you look at the state of New Hampshire over the past several years, the enrollment has been continuously decreasing. The dilemma is that the enrollment is decreasing, but the cost of education is increasing.
TEXT> And why is enrollment decreasing? Because in the state of New Hampshire, the birth rate is decreasing. In fact, demographically,  the middle age and older population  is  expanding, is expanding in comparison to the young or youth of our of our state. So as the enrollments decreasing, the cost of education is increasing. This gives you a snapshot of the past several years of the Claremont School District. With the exception of the 0.58 5.8% increase, which was duly related to the Stevens High School renovation project. I think you can see the school board you have done, and prior members have done a great deal of work to minimize the increase in the budget. In fact, if you look at the increase in the budget over this period, it's less than 2%, but that still represents $2.4 million over that period of time. The good news is there is it's not all  on the taxpayer's back in New Hampshire without any other sales tax, state tax. It predominantly, predominantly  on the real estate tax. The good news is the state has stepped up. The bad news is the state is stepping back. This is  gives you a view of nationally of how important state revenue is to public schools.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But the demand on local funding in New Hampshire will be increasing. That becomes very problematic if there isn't a tax or revenue source. Let me give you an example

[8873-9] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (budget hearing presentation [4-40]; Sprague add | 2017-01-11
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: 18 classes that are less than ten students at Stevens High School, about 4243 that are 10 to 15 students, about a little over 50. 16 to 20 students. And we have approximately 3132 students. Excuse me, 32 classes that have more than 20 students.
TEXT> I think it's wonderful if a school district can support that pupil teacher ratio. But in times of economic challenges, we have to look at that. And that's one of the areas of efficiencies. And if we compare the elementary to the middle to  the high, you can see that Stevens High School has the advantage  of having several classes less than ten and several classes between 10 and 15. Research has shown that class size is not the major factor on student achievement in the school classroom. It's the skills of the teacher. It's the relationship with the teacher and student. So it's important to note that. So we looked at that kind of information and went through the process of the budget discussion and decisions being made. So with declining enrollment and with declining state age, the school administration has asked a question how can we do things differently? Can we sustain our programs but look at other ways of doing this versus changing nothing and going forward with an $850,000 increase? I don't think that's realistic in today's economy. And these changes can't be based on emotions or friendships. They have to be based on data. And that's the difficult part, because a lot of times when we're dealing with budget impact, we're talking about people. When we talk about people, we talk about people we care about. We talk about people, educators, administrators, parents, whatever the case may be who have assisted us.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And now we're talking about this type of change. But it has to be impersonal, and it has to be based on strategy for a reason. There are some recommendations,

[8873-64] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: being in school for six and a half, seven hours a day is not going to happen for them, and that we've provided alternative ways for them to get their Stevens High School diploma and met the needs of a lot of kids that way.
TEXT> What we're looking to do is expand  that. We have an alt program. We've met the needs of a number of students who otherwise would be out of district placements, and we've kept them in district, and that's growing. I'm very proud of how we're meeting the needs of those kids, and we've been working with Amy Hood and adult Ed to create hybrid individual learning plans for students because there's no two student circumstances who are alike. And so really, an in-depth, integrated Alt program has to be everything that we can put together for a student and their individual needs. And so looking at how you're looking at a cut here, but the cut would represent work that we're doing to as doctor McGowan said, look at new strategies, new out of the box ways, using adult ed in ways that we've never utilized it before to meet the needs of those kids, because those needs aren't going away and we don't want those kids to go away. We want to be able to service them and give them ways and pathways, more pathways than currently exist. The Owls program is, is is the derivative of the ombudsman, which is what we originally had in the district. And it is two sessions, 2.5 hours in the morning. You're in that session or you're in the 2.5 hour session in the afternoon.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So with a capacity of 30 between the two sessions, we believe that by expanding the different kinds of alternative routes and pathways that we offer for students overall, that

[8873-65] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: exist. The Owls program is, is is the derivative of the ombudsman, which is what we originally had in the district. And it is two sessions, 2.5 hours in the morning. You're in that session or you're in the 2.5 hour session in the afternoon.
TEXT> So with a capacity of 30 between the two sessions,  we believe that by expanding the different kinds of alternative routes and pathways that we offer for students overall, that we can meet the needs of students, and still be able to afford that particular cut. It does not mean that we're taking away services. It means that we're looking at other ways to meet the those students needs. The two acknowledge the new technology. Equipment is the same as you heard from the other schools. Things that we would have gotten more  or new that don't currently exist. It's not a replacement of things we currently have. And so  that would just push out that agenda for those items a little bit more. And the two things that we're looking to add, the alt program director, as I've said to you before,  that program, in order to be able to run,  efficiently and it needs to have a director, not just a teacher. And so we're looking to create that job description so that that person has more administrative responsibilities within that program. And that would we're we're thinking that stipend would be a way to to change that.  And also for our discipline monitor at the high school, that job has grown exponentially in what is done. It's it is it is not, a job like any other.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: It doesn't fit into a category, certainly doesn't fit the typical para description that it's currently under the auspices of a para, contract. And so to acknowledge the amount of

[8873-90] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Class, but there's not like a.
TEXT> A lot of groundwork has been done in the sense that in your you're partially right, you're partially right. And and gutting the program, which is why there's, there's one position being cut not not to. So there's a recognition that the program has value and does meet the needs of kids and does need to remain in the district.  You know, I leave that to you in your decision making process as to, to where that lands with things, but when when charged with looking at class size and teacher student ratio. And how  can we begin to provide services to students in other ways with other existing resources that are in the district? We we feel that there are other ways to meet the needs of some of those students and then those who traditionally need that owls format that that's still there for them. And so it's like I said, it's not eliminating, but for some students, you know, I probably had about three student meetings this week where this wasn't working, and we needed to take a look at what can we do through adult ed, what can we do through JAG?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: What can we do through an alter day? What is that students plan that's unique to them and their needs? Because plan A, B, and C didn't work and we're

[8873-91] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: I said, it's not eliminating, but for some students, you know, I probably had about three student meetings this week where this wasn't working, and we needed to take a look at what can we do through adult ed, what can we do through JAG?
TEXT> What can we do through an alter day? What is that students plan that's unique to them and their needs? Because plan A, B, and C didn't work and we're constantly doing that. And that to me I think is, is is is is very, very necessary because we're, we're looking at that student. We're not saying, you know, cookie cutter just because being in the Stephens building isn't working for you go to owls because that's the only other place other than behavioral program that we have for you. It's rather saying we have to customize for each kid the plan that's going to work for them. And it's not always going to look like a 2.5 hour session. It might look like that. And then something at night, and it might look like a course with Mr. Silva during the day. And, you know, so expanding, constantly expanding what we can offer kids to make it work for them.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And I'd rather give a chance for like kind of the public to I know I don't want to, like, suck up all the time.

[8873-97] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Cory LeClair: Well.
TEXT> Before we had the Alt program, before we had some of these other things like working with Amy Hood. It if I'm correct, we hit a high of about 44 year before last. And that's because any student that wasn't thriving, we said, okay, go to Alice. And they have a very clear criteria. You know, you have to have 13.5 credits. You have to have junior or senior status. It's meant to be a two year program, not a four year program. But we were plugging students in because that was the only that was the only other thing we could do. And so they went up to 44.   Everybody acknowledged at one point we said, you know, the fidelity of what they could do for their students wasn't there because the numbers were so high. And we sat down and we said, let's get it back to what we said was the max, which was 35 and 15 in each session. And let's get back to what we said we were going to do as far as the interview process for getting students in et cetera, etc.. So then it went back to 30. And at this point in time, I want to say we're at about 23 between the two sessions.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And what is what are the sessions typically break down into for numbers of students?

[8873-104] Brian Dillon | Owls program teacher, Stevens High School (Barry: 'Brian, is it about  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Rapp: Can you. Yeah. Thanks.
TEXT> So board members, Mr. Superintendent, the the nature of how we get our students is directly related to, success or failure of students at Stevens. You know, where they're. They've been asked to. Well, try to stay, you know, go to class, do your work and see if you can be successful. If having done that, they still are not achieve the success that they need, then they have the guidance counselors will fill out a rubric, the rubric that says there's this person a high, high risk for dropping out. Is this person, better suited for the kind of situation that we, we provide? And typically we have that sort of fluctuate. For example, already this year, three of our students have graduated. They made up their quest they needed to do and boom, they're out in the world there. They've got jobs, they're valuable members of the community. And that can happen at any time. As soon as the student is ready, prepared, able to finish up, they got their head in the right place. They come in, they can graduate at any time. They'll fulfill all the requirements, the community service and so on. So how that works. Guidance counselors see a need. We now have our SST program flowing along. So there's a lot of oversight of students who are kind of getting into a maybe a bad direction.
NEXT> Brian Dillon: And the guidance counselors and Nestor get together and they say, yeah, this person's a possibility. They talk to us, they look at the rubric, and then, you know, we

[8873-106] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Barry: 'as Corey was saying' [215] ab | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Dillon: could be at any time. So no, I don't have any idea. I do know that we have three more students who probably graduate in the next week and a half. If not maybe at the beginning of February. So that's what we're there for.
TEXT> We also have a number of students in the owls are. Either expectant. Parents or who already have children. So one of the other things we've talked about at the board level is how we are trying to  get the licensing in place for a daycare service for our students who are high school students, who have children already, who are expecting children, so that they have that solid daycare in place so that they can complete their high school programing. So that is a factor in this as well.
NEXT> Unidentified: But it does. It doesn't.

[8873-111] Brian Dillon | Owls program teacher, Stevens High School (Barry: 'Brian, is it about  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patrick Adrian: other partnership and trying to provide that need. I just I just want to make sure. Sure. It sounds like that really that that's something that complements what we're already doing. And we don't know what how the alternative is going to work just yet.
TEXT> Well, as a program that successful is an organic thing that grows. And ours has over the years, we've, you know, as Miss Berry was saying, you know, that used to be this large population and some of the students were not interested in graduating. And now we have people who want that special situation, are interested in graduating to come in and they get to work. It doesn't look like a normal classroom. There are people who come in, they sit down, they get to work, and that's the environment that they needed. Right? And, you know, it's not just computers in a room. It's the teachers, the students, the computers, the room, the the outreach that we've done to deal with young parenthood, the programs we have that  have come in to start to help people with life skills,  from Dartmouth-Hitchcock and other sources. It's a, you know, yes, it's an evolving thing, but careful which which limbs you cut off, you know, because it may not be able to walk anymore.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right. And I think that's.

[8873-114] Brian Dillon | Owls program teacher, Stevens High School (Barry: 'Brian, is it about  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Exactly what I'm saying is, it sounds I, I really would not want to tamper with that with.
TEXT> Right. We acknowledge that it's there's opportunity to grow. That's what we've been doing. That's what we encourage in our students. But your point about it being kind of sudden and, you know, being part of that new growth and direction is something we'd like to see happen.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. Brian.

[8873-126] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brent Ferland: So they need or different something's different. So they need this this different alternative. And that's the whole purpose of that is to meet that different learning style.
TEXT> And needs like. You know as, as, as Corey was saying, you know, when you, when you've got a child at home and you need to to work a job, but you want to graduate that, that provides that opportunity or, a lot of our students have, various different domestic challenges that they're dealing with. And, when I say domestic, you know, needs at home that they that they're taking on and or, you know, each scenario for every kid is as different as and unique as the kid. Yeah.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: One of the things that I struggle with sometimes is when I want to look at my son on the board, and we talk about all the different programs. What

[8873-146] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I think, Michelle' [51 | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Diminished state.
TEXT> And it's being consolidated to fit the budget so that we're not charging the taxpayers. And it's not necessarily  cutting off to unsupported, but rather open up support for more avenues for these children. Is that what I'm hearing?
NEXT> Brian Dillon: That's what it sounds like. But our position is that is not exactly the case, that something that is working as is, is not set in concrete, has not been

[8873-154] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I think, Michelle' [51 | 2017-01-11
PREV> Michelle Pierce: years ago when we looked at the dropout rates and what we could do different if this is going to service children that, that that are carrying children, that will make it easier for them than, you know, then we need to look at that.
TEXT> I'm not denying that it isn't a success, because obviously it's a success. From the people sitting here and from emails that I've read. What I want to see and understand, though, is, is that if we're moving forward, then we need to move forward in every direction and to be to be able to go to the table and say, this is what can happen with the program still involved, you should be very proud of because Bluff Maple, all of these schools we just watched, $850,000 increase being dropped considerably at the taxpayers request at the at the at the citizens saying we don't want to keep paying more and more and more. And what can you do to make that better? So I don't see that you're changing the program. I really hear the benefit of how it's going to be better  and that and that with anything comes change. I didn't want to see the schedule get changed back, because I don't want to see the kids get yanked anymore.  However, that didn't happen. You know, we have to have some consistency. And I believe that growth and looking at new ways, trying to create a child care center for the children that are already carrying children  and that burden, those are great things. We have to keep looking forward and looking for better ways, and we can't be taking it. As you're taking it away from me, you need to be.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: We need to be sincere in our hearts and looking at the way of how we're going to make it better. So if anything, I applaud you for having to

[8873-163] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Of those?
TEXT> Sure. You know, in some ways, a lot of ways, athletics,  the arts there another form of an alternative program. Okay. You know it. That's what captures our kids and  often is the reason why they show up in the morning at all.  It affects school culture. You know, we saw what happened when we went to a football championship.  Is that the essence of education? It's a big part of it. You know what's taught through athletics? The kind of young men and women that we develop through athletics. Our. That's that's a big part of the educational process of of what we offer at Stevens. So,  you know, and people talk about pay to play and they talk about, you know, it's a separate thing. So if you're going to be involved in it, you should pay for the privilege of, you know, wearing the uniform. And not everybody should have to not in a community like Claremont. Some of the kids who need to be on that field or on that court, the most of the kids who can't afford to pay to play kind of situation. So  I'll tell you, Coach Silva last  last season was spending his when we were still in the renovation. It was two seasons ago. It was still in the renovation.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: He spent his entire weekends after the football games, at the laundromat and at home hand-washing the football uniforms because there wasn't a washing machine available for him to use.

[8873-164] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: the most of the kids who can't afford to pay to play kind of situation. So I'll tell you, Coach Silva last last season was spending his when we were still in the renovation. It was two seasons ago. It was still in the renovation.
TEXT> He spent his entire weekends after the football games, at the laundromat and at home hand-washing the football uniforms because there wasn't a washing machine available for him to use. And he got, I think, eight, nine, ten years out of those uniforms where most schools go through a set in three, 4 or 5 years.  So there have been some things that we've been extremely judicious about in the athletics program. Very, very conservative. And Mr. Beaupre is acknowledging now that it's time that some of those uniforms get replaced, some of those helmets get replaced, keeping our kids safe, you know, giving them the best equipment while they're on the field and on the court is extremely important. So  I see that as. Being. Make up for a lot of lean years as far as financing athletics. You're welcome.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Chris. Okay.

[8873-208] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (budget hearing presentation [4-40]; Sprague add | 2017-01-11
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: than article two, then the collective bargaining agreements are safe, because I don't think too many people are going to be voting for a default budget that larger than the regular budget, and our teachers and employees who have participated in the collective bargaining process.
TEXT> This is critical for us. An example in point, and I'm not going to be too long, but I do respect what you've said, Brian.  We are, and I'm not exaggerating, but anywhere from six to over $20,000 behind in other districts with pay scale, we have lost some wonderful, wonderful colleagues who did the right thing for their families. Two years ago, one staff member left Claremont Middle School $20,000 increase this year in elementary school. Staff member left $24,000 increase. Now, we're not going to make up that difference, but the collective bargaining agreements have allowed us to raise and decrease that gap between Claremont and other districts. Our faculty, our colleague, deserved this. Also, the children deserve not to have a revolving door of of good people. We hire and recruit and train, leave maintenance custodians, Paris secretaries, roofing improvements. You'll see for maintenance custodians, $0.07 per parent negotiations $0.17. Secretaries $0.04. Roofing improvements. No increase on the tax rate because we had roofing improvements this year. Capital reserve zero at the 15th cent reduction. And last but not least, security upgrades the work of the principals, the work of you even before again, this is the work in progress. But as of right now, at 8:00 on January 11th, what we've done represents 16 cent increase on the thousand.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I want to thank all of all of the administrative team who has put in countless hours. We've done our job, we've given our best thoughts. However, now it's up

[8873-213] Mike | Public commenter, Ward 1, recently retired Stevens High School teacher | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: All right.
TEXT> I wanted to. First of all, I want to thank everybody for all the work that this group has done. Secondly, I love the owls program, and I wanted to speak about that, but I know there's about a lot of people that are going to do that. So instead I'm going to talk about the p position suggested  cut. 32 years of experience has told me any time you cut any personnel in any position, the kids suffer  somehow. And we're looking now at one person taking care of the 500 plus students physical education needs. Now, I know we can do things like saying, okay, if you know, if a child has karate lessons or something, well, that would count. Well, I don't know that that's really a good idea. You see, physical education means physical and education. And it means as, as Frank suggested earlier, you know, it also means how do you play a game? Why is it important that you stay healthy? If we look at or if I look at the past few years,  this is. There are a great number of students that came through my classes at the high school. That were very unhealthy weight wise. And I know there are probably an occasional teacher that might have that same situation,  but, but I wonder where they got that way. And I don't believe that cutting a PE teacher in any way, shape or form is going to serve our students well.
NEXT> Mike: On the contrary, it's going to serve our students poorly.

[8873-214] Mike | Public commenter, Ward 1, recently retired Stevens High School teacher | 2017-01-11
PREV> Mike: I know there are probably an occasional teacher that might have that same situation, but, but I wonder where they got that way. And I don't believe that cutting a PE teacher in any way, shape or form is going to serve our students well.
TEXT> On the contrary, it's going to serve our students poorly.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you. Thanks.

[8873-217] Lisa Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3; works for a community social service agency  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Rapp: Who's next?
TEXT> I'm Lisa Draper. I'm a resident of Ward three. I also work for one of the community social service agencies that does outreach with the Owls program.  And I am very concerned  that adult Ed is not a substitute for the supports  that our students receive in the Owls program.  I'm all for adult ed. I think it's great, but a 17 year old is not an adult, and as far as I know, we're not offering a lot of adult ed during the same hours that our students need  the Owls program so that they can parent so that they can work and so that they can graduate. So I'm going to echo the sentiments of others who say this is a program that works.  I'm all for looking at ways to better leverage the investment we've already made in adult ed. But I want you all to recognize, since I've taught there two, that those people sign up to teach adults, they aren't necessarily the same people who have signed up to work with some of our neediest students,  and I think we need to respect that about the two different domains and find ways to put them together, but not by sacrificing this program. So thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Just ask a quick.

[8873-220] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Patrick, please' [41]  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Rapp: Sure, Liza.
TEXT> Oh, no. Well, I just want to follow up something that Liza said that I always think about. Two. It really wasn't a question, but just the, you mentioned something that  I was thinking about was about the adult Ed versus the owls program. And, I'd say to the students, whether they felt comfortable speaking to this or continue to write, my letter, I'd like to know how they feel, how they feel about the idea of kind of being an editor program as opposed to the program there. Now, because I got the  I  don't know, I think that they have to come to the better understanding of what that experience would be. Like to speak. And I guess that's why I was saying, I thought you brought up a great point. I was just kind of throwing it out there if if one way or the other, I think the students, either by letters or even here, you know, how what that experience might feel like for them one way or the other.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you.

[8873-222] Michelle Springer | Public commenter, Ward 2; graduate of the earlier alternative program  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> And Michelle Springer, I'm Ward two. I'm a lifelong resident. I'm speaking for the owls program for, I graduated from the Cat program, which is the original program. 18 years ago, I would have dropped out and I wouldn't have gone anywhere I am now. I have my associate's degree. I am certified sign language certified. I'm a registered behavior technician. And I just know that if you cut this program, you're going to see more behavior to for the behavior program. So I see that if cutting the owls altogether or even not cutting it, but like putting it into one is not going to be helpful for any of these students. And I speak that from experience.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8873-234] Brianne Lawrence | Public commenter, Ward 2; former Owls student (self-identified [383]) | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> The adult.  I wouldn't have gone into adulthood. You can't take adult ed and the kids who are in the owls program and just put them together. There are totally two different needs. I was skipping school all the time. I was having home issues, and I just wasn't really fitting in with the high school environment and the kids and people in adulthood, you know, they're adults. They they're in there for a totally different reason. I don't really know much about adult editor. I just know that the two aren't the same at all. That's probably. All I can help.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. Good job. Please. See you.

[8873-236] Amanda Mass | Public commenter, former Owls student, lives out of town (self-identif | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. Good job. Please. See you.
TEXT> Hi. My name is Amanda mass and I actually live out of town. I traveled about an hour to get here today. So I am a. I'm sorry. I don't know what ward Hillsborough would be. So I'm a former Owl student. I graduated in 2010. I spent many of you emails, so I'm sure that you got them.  I wanted to tell you a little bit about myself. I was pregnant when I came to the program, and I was going to drop out. I. I didn't have anywhere to live, and I needed to, I needed to work to be able to get an apartment for my child. And then I was recommended to go to the owls program, and it saved me.  I was able to graduate ahead of time. You know, I believe that they mentioned that, that the students are able to complete their credits and finish up with the schooling before the, you know, the May deadlines that the other students go go through. So I was able to finish up with schooling before I had my child, which was extraordinarily helpful. Now I am a mother of three, and I am finishing up with my associate's degree in nursing.
NEXT> Amanda Mass: I'm going to be finished with that in May, and I'm pursuing a career, and a doctorate degree, down the line. So, my main concern as you, as you mentioned,

[8873-237] Amanda Mass | Public commenter, former Owls student, lives out of town (self-identif | 2017-01-11
PREV> Amanda Mass: May deadlines that the other students go go through. So I was able to finish up with schooling before I had my child, which was extraordinarily helpful. Now I am a mother of three, and I am finishing up with my associate's degree in nursing.
TEXT> I'm going to be finished with that in May, and I'm pursuing a career, and a doctorate degree, down the line. So,  my main concern as you, as you mentioned, the, the adult ed that my my understanding of  that, at least when it was brought up to me in the past, is that there are financial responsibilities that are tied to it that fall on the, on the students. And for me, that wouldn't have been an option. I worked a 725. And our job, you know, it just it didn't work. My question is how is this budget money coming in? Is it just is it strictly from eliminating teacher support? Could could could you comment on that? Is it is it by eliminating the teacher positions? Is that where the the budget is coming from?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: The reduction?

[8873-241] Amanda Mass | Public commenter, former Owls student, lives out of town (self-identif | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: Part of it is from the teacher salaries. Okay. And the other pieces like the furniture and the tech equipment. So it's. A combination. Okay.
TEXT> Well, I wanted to comment on that because, the as was mentioned, the owls program, it's more than just, you know, sitting in a room with computers. It's not it's not like that. These these kids like me personally, I needed to have, support. I needed to have someone to keep me going, to keep me motivated. And that's something that can only be that. That it can only happen when you have a teacher there that is able to push you. And I think that we all know that. I think that that is completely reasonable. Otherwise we would have no teachers at all. We would just have all computer programing. It is vital to have, educators that are there to support us and to keep us going, to keep us motivated. So if we eliminate those positions, we're going to be, we're going it's going to disadvantage the students. They need they need that support. In some cases, it's the only support system that they have. So again, I'm feeling nervous too. So that's, that's going to be that's going to be all. Thank you so much.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Buddy.

[8873-269] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Sprague: 'I'm going to piggyback on | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Hurt, okay.
TEXT> She's the one that does all the concussion protocol. She's the one I mean, I can my experience is pretty simple. My daughter didn't get the only thing she got to play in her last senior game was because as she was there to take care of her and bring her back into shape, I can tell you it's stories of kids that have been hurt. You know, that's her role is to is to train. But it's really to teach them how to do the right stretches, how to be healthy, and to be there when something happens to be the first responder. In a lot of different cases, she has been, you know, so that is really her role. Is she is it for on the sidelines of every single game and and and outside that taking care of all the kids and teaching them all that, taping them before games, all that kind of stuff. It's it's a it's a pretty big responsibility. And I can tell you straight up, since she's been here, it's had a huge impact on our sports injuries and lack thereof and kids being able to come back and finish. So so it's  I can't say enough about that position and the person in it.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: All right.

[8873-289] Veronica Bellair | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified [475]; ASR spelling unverifi | 2017-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: Multiply handicap.
TEXT> And I know from my experience being involved in the Unified Team in the last three years, it's it's if you haven't seen a game, you really ought to, because there's something to be said about it. And, I'm just concerned about that class and how Carolyn handles those children. Not that someone else couldn't do it, but  for me, being involved in that, it's that's that's a concern for me. And, and I also have the concern of how one physical teacher can sustain 540 children. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8873-296] Shauna Baird | Owls program teacher (self-identified 'I teach the alternative program | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. I'd like to see that. And I'd also like to what's the completion rate then. So the 44 students in the owls and then. 23, 23.
TEXT> I'm really glad you asked me that actually. So when we first came here from we had 45 students, we had three teachers, we had two certified teachers, and we had a pair of professional in the program. So there were three individuals. And then two years later we got one of our individuals cut from our program. So we were actually operating with less personnel. So we had to reduce the numbers of our students to max out at 30. So we have 30 students. But remember, when we have students that are graduating, that opens up a spot for another student to come in. So it's not like we just service, you know, those 30 students throughout the year. We had I counted with my co-teacher. And since we've been here, Ombudsman and Owls, we've serviced 300 students. The success rate I think you've read is pretty high. I don't have exact numbers on the success rate, but in a year I would estimate that I only see 5 or 6 students leave without me really fighting for them  to to stick around.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So that's, that's that's important. I want to thank you for that because it it helped me realize something that it's not just the potentially 15 students in the morning,

[8873-304] Bruce Wilkins | Public commenter, parent of an Owls graduate (self-identified [503]) | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Four. Two, two.
TEXT> And I'm here in behalf of. My son. He went to owls. He tried everything he could to go through school, and he just couldn't do it. And he came to ALS and he graduated this year. And I'm really proud of him.  You know, like in my life, when I grew up, we didn't have things like this. And I wish there was something like this back then. They ever got rid of anything like that? I would say, no, not in a million years.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you, thank you.

[8873-425] Unidentified | Unidentified - two short remarks during the closing budget discussion  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Chris Irish: Well to Frank.
TEXT> Absolutely is a good philosophy, but it can't sacrifice the educational opportunities for our students.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And Frank's point, what we did with the with that spreadsheet from Saturday is and I said this to my in the email, is anything that we zeroed out or

[8875-24] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-54]; chair: 'everyt | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: Thank you very much. Superintendents report.
TEXT> Thank you.  Mary and Mary is correct. It is 93%. That was one of our goals for this this school year. And at the at the pat in the back for Stevens High School. As we moved toward that and talking about Pat in the back. You know, Marion mentioned about some of our elementary schools showing growth.  It's important that that students, the faculty and the community be aware and be commended, that there are many ways of identifying progress. And if we just use a state mandated assessment.  There were limitations with that,  oftentimes limitations that really don't show what's going on. What we're trying to do is not to counter the state mandate of the assessment, but provide evidence that students are growing academically. And, Marion, just the data she shared represents growth. And it represents,  I think, the work of the faculty, work of the students and the support of the parents. So thank you for bringing that up, Marion.  I would very much like to start off by introducing you to our new director of Instructional Technology. As you know, Nathan Levine is now the  assistant director of business, finance and human resources.  And through a very rigorous process,  Mr. Joshua malloy has been hired as the director of instructional technology. Josh, would you stand up, please?
NEXT> Chris Irish: Welcome.

[8875-27] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-54]; chair: 'everyt | 2017-01-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: And there's one section that talks about the hardest lessons. Let me just share a couple of these with you that no matter what you think you know about school board service, when you first come on board, you still have a lot to learn.
TEXT> You can say that about superintendent of the schools, by the way, that you can't solve everyone's problems by yourself. That the primary focus of all board decisions must be student achievement. And last but not least, that you must represent all the students. Your decisions must be made in the interests of the total school system, and not made solely for special groups or interests. And as school board members and as community members.  That's challenging. That's challenging because you're on the front line with phone calls. But I think my advice to any school board member is you make an informed decision, and you have to rely on your conscience that it is in the best interests of the students. And it is in regard to  the entire school system. So the other thing I'd like to share with you, on a totally different vein, and by the way, tonight the process will allow you to continue that as we go through the budget and provide additional information. So ultimately, a decision will be made in preparation for the deliberative session on February 8th.  Last Friday, there was an incident at Stevens High School, an incident meaning that,  a student the day before it was learned.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Created a threat, quote unquote, a Wi-Fi connection named school shooting. 11317. The school administration working closely with the police department of Thursday afternoon. And by Friday after Friday morning

[8875-58] Carolyn Hamilton | Public commenter, Ward 1; physical education teacher, Stevens High Sch | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: teachers like myself. Pretty soon you won't have to worry about cutting teachers because they'll be leaving in mass or just not coming here at all. You're building a pretty big reputation that I really hope stops pretty soon. No one wants to live here.
TEXT> And work here with fear of losing their job every single year, over  and over and over again. There are teachers in this district who have been through this for years. Some like almost longer than I've been alive. And it's it's not right. There has to be an answer to figuring this out. I get it, I pay taxes as well. They're high. But I'm from Maine and we have 8% tax on everything. So sometimes you just kind of got to suck it up. I mean, I think the education of our kids is worth it. I and many other teachers would love to worry about what we're going to teach tomorrow instead of worrying about if we're going to have a job. Pretty soon, you won't have the older teachers to hold these schools together because you've gotten rid of everybody that should be taking their place. Pretty soon they're going to retire, and there won't be anybody left to have the experience and be the older generation within your schools that you need to hold them together. The physical education program, you say tonight that you're keeping it.
NEXT> Carolyn Hamilton: Well, I really hope that that's true. I think that the whole position that I was given when I first came here is important, because we give hope to the

[8875-59] Carolyn Hamilton | Public commenter, Ward 1; physical education teacher, Stevens High Sch | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: taking their place. Pretty soon they're going to retire, and there won't be anybody left to have the experience and be the older generation within your schools that you need to hold them together. The physical education program, you say tonight that you're keeping it.
TEXT> Well, I really hope that that's true. I think that the whole position that I was given when I first came here is important, because we give hope to the students who struggle with being physically active and healthy. We provide an introduction to many different ways for them to be healthy,  and I feel that it's important for their futures. Yes, the core subjects are very important. I completely agree, but if these students don't learn to be healthy and have healthy lifestyles and live long enough to make healthy decisions for their lives, then. All that we've  talked, all the really good teachers that you have in the course subjects, it's all for nothing. Obesity is continuing to rise. More physical education is needed. Not any bit less have I come to enjoy teaching other a couple other classes. Yes, but is that my passion? Is that what I truly believe is important for our students here at Stevens? Absolutely not. It may it be important for somebody else to teach it. Of course. Since I've been here, Jeremy and I have developed our program from a single general physical education course that we inherited into six specialized courses. We have provided the rigor that we were asked to.
NEXT> Carolyn Hamilton: You're going to tell me, from what I've heard from my position being cut originally, I don't know exactly what your total plan is for putting it back or whatnot,

[8875-60] Carolyn Hamilton | Public commenter, Ward 1; physical education teacher, Stevens High Sch | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: be important for somebody else to teach it. Of course. Since I've been here, Jeremy and I have developed our program from a single general physical education course that we inherited into six specialized courses. We have provided the rigor that we were asked to.
TEXT> You're going to tell me, from what I've heard from my position being cut originally, I don't know exactly what your total plan is for putting it back or whatnot, but 550 students need to take a physical education course twice. That's 1100 students without me. Jeremy can teach 12 blocks. Four of those blocks is mandated that they are adaptive physical education. So now you're down to eight blocks for everybody else. If he averaged 20 students per class for eight blocks, that's 160 students. You multiply that by four years that they're at Stevens. That's 640 students. You're telling me that somebody definitely is not going to be. Jeremy is going to put through over 450 ellos. We can barely keep up with doing a couple of loaves and doing our classes. When does this stop? When is it? Who's next? Is it going to be math? Or they're going to get math credits for working at Walmart and being a cashier. Or culinary credits for working at McDonald's? I mean, when where is our merit behind our education that we're giving these students? I think it should be much higher than giving students the opportunity to get ellos from all these. I've seen a sheet of paper saying all these community activities that isn't physical education. That's an activity.
NEXT> Carolyn Hamilton: The last three years of budget cuts. I've also been told, don't take this personally. It's a number they need to get rid of. My number, my pay. All right.

[8875-62] Carolyn Hamilton | Public commenter, Ward 1; physical education teacher, Stevens High Sch | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: and now you're back to try and get the rest of mine last year. I feel big shoes. Judy is amazing with the adaptive kids, and it's been really tough. I've been extremely lucky that she has been one on one pair in my class.
TEXT> You can ask anyone in the life skills program or any of these kids that are here tonight. The students that are in that program don't take to change. Well, they don't take change well at all. The only  way or reason that it's worked out for me is because Judy introduced me, and I have worked with them through unified,  and they have come to trust me. And I am a little bit. I was already in with them a little bit, so it didn't. It made the change a little bit easier. Another piece that I've seen in some of the proposals for the physical education courses  are requirements. The administration believes that sports is the answer.  I've competed in four high school sports and two college sports. But I learned to be healthy from my physical education courses,  not my sports. The sports only got me so far. Being healthy during and after and for a lifetime is what we teach. Something sports alone cannot do. For most of our students, high school sports will be the last time they ever step on that field. Many NFL players who you would consider very much proficient in their ability area in football, when they're done playing, they have an extremely hard time transitioning out of no longer playing football and into a healthy lifestyle.
NEXT> Carolyn Hamilton: Often they don't transition well at all because they've never known anything other than football. So to say that a kid is going to get a credit for playing a

[8875-64] Carolyn Hamilton | Public commenter, Ward 1; physical education teacher, Stevens High Sch | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: I created a unified track program. We brought home a unified basketball state runner up championship. I against D1 schools because unified is across the board. The only team we lost who was keen, who's D1. I consider that a championship where a D3 school.
TEXT> I have put myself out there and dedicated myself to this school district when I had absolutely nothing. I knew I had no commitment here  at all. I have put these unified teams together.  I have coached middle school softball, J.V., boys and girls soccer. I, I now volunteer as the assistant varsity girls soccer coach. I have read pep rallies, student council, full day winter carnival, spirit weeks, dances. I even have an exchange student right now. I attend the majority and I don't know very many other people other than the athletic director that goes to more sporting events, school plays, concerts, and I still coach three seasons. I want to be a part of Steven's future, a very dedicated part of enriching the lives of these students here at Stevens. But I believe that the students also deserve a full  time position from myself as their physical education teacher. And I don't want to continuously come back here  or be called into my principal's office  year after year after year and be told, yep, you're up for being cut again. Because to me, I came here for this to be my career, for this to be the place I stayed. And I really hope that  somehow you guys  and the superintendent and everybody involved can somehow work together, figure this out, because I think that every program at the high school is legitimate and should stay, and is important for the education of our students. Thank you.
NEXT> Brian: Hi, everybody. My name is Brian. I came tonight to discuss how important Mrs. Hamilton's position really is. This is coming from somebody that's never had her as a teacher.

[8875-65] Brian | Public commenter, Stevens High School student (first name only: 'My na | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: really hope that somehow you guys and the superintendent and everybody involved can somehow work together, figure this out, because I think that every program at the high school is legitimate and should stay, and is important for the education of our students. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi, everybody. My name is Brian. I came tonight to discuss how important Mrs. Hamilton's position really is. This is coming from somebody that's never had her as a teacher.  And, I'm taking another gym credit this year, and I still will not have her as my gym teacher. But I just want to talk about how important she is, not only to somebody, not only to a student that's never had her as a teacher,  but how important she is to the kids that she has. I want to give you a little bit of background about myself, and I'm pretty sure that Mr. Bezos can back me up with a lot of this, as he is the special education coordinator, I believe. So last year I went up to Mrs. Berry. I had a free block as a junior, and I didn't know what I wanted to fill it with. And she was asking me, what are you passionate about? And I told her, well, Mrs. Berry, I already have my four English credits. I already have my four science credits. I mean, I think that I want to try something new.  So for a credit, I was able to work one on one during my whole every single day during fourth quarter downstairs with special education as a one on one.
NEXT> Brian: And, that's going on top of being in there every single Friday during my peer outreach program. And this was doing not only school work, not only health classes, not

[8875-67] Brian | Public commenter, Stevens High School student (first name only: 'My na | 2017-01-18
PREV> Brian: wouldn't even talk to me. The first two months I was there, every single day I'd be like, hey, Michaela, how you doing? I'd work with her. I'd try to make funny jokes, but I just looked like a funny guy over there to her.
TEXT> And then one day,  finally, I broke through and we had a conversation. While playing basketball on her team. She made a basket. She got excited, I got excited, we gave a high five, and then it just started working out  and going back to what happened last year. Once the kids found out that Mrs. Carter  had lost her spot as the adaptive physical education teacher,  it was not only a difficult transition for them to make. Already knowing Mrs. Hamilton and knowing that Mrs. Hamilton was going to take over that position, it was still hard for them. Mrs. Carter has not only been there for the students, as a gym teacher, as a health teacher, but she's there as a one on one teacher in this is Mrs. Hamilton filling Mrs. Carter shoes. Now, although Mrs. Carter is still there in the classes. This is Mrs. Hamilton now teaching these classes. That was Mrs.. A year ago. Mrs. Hamilton already went over what she did for the community. But the unified sports she does is like an extra home for these kids. Instead of going home and doing everything that's do on a normal basis, they get to do extracurriculars that they  dream of.
NEXT> Brian: Instead of them coming to watch us do our extracurriculars, they get to physically go out there and participate while we go out there to watch them participate in these

[8875-68] Brian | Public commenter, Stevens High School student (first name only: 'My na | 2017-01-18
PREV> Brian: already went over what she did for the community. But the unified sports she does is like an extra home for these kids. Instead of going home and doing everything that's do on a normal basis, they get to do extracurriculars that they dream of.
TEXT> Instead of them coming to watch us do our extracurriculars, they get to physically go out there and participate while we go out there to watch them participate in these extracurriculars. And these are the extracurriculars that I didn't create. These Mrs. Barry didn't create these. Mr.. Mr. Beaupre didn't create these, but these are the creations of Mrs. Hamilton outside of her school work. These kids get something to look forward to every single day. It's not Mrs. Hamilton in the halls. It's. Hey, Coach Hamilton, I can't wait to see you at practice tonight. Or. Hey, Coach Hamilton, do you remember that shot I made last night in my basketball game? Or Coach Hamilton? I can't believe I got my new personal record in track. This is coming from somebody that's never had her as a student. But I can't imagine how these kids would feel knowing that they just lost Mrs. Carter, even though she is still there. But imagine not being able to see Mrs. Hamilton in the classroom, outside of the classroom, not being able to talk to Mrs. Hamilton about a problem they're having because they're so comfortable seeing her for hours during a day period,  or not being able to see her on that Saturday during a track meet, because they're so excited that the school weeks finally over there, so excited that they finally get to see Coach Hamilton at one of these track meets, that they get to
NEXT> Brian: go run off their problems, that they get to get away from everyday life, that they get to go out and participate in something. It's just unbelievable what Miss Hamilton

[8875-69] Brian | Public commenter, Stevens High School student (first name only: 'My na | 2017-01-18
PREV> Brian: or not being able to see her on that Saturday during a track meet, because they're so excited that the school weeks finally over there, so excited that they finally get to see Coach Hamilton at one of these track meets, that they get to
TEXT> go run off their problems, that they get to get away from everyday life, that they get to go out and participate in something. It's just unbelievable what Miss Hamilton has done. And if her position happened to be absent next year, I can't imagine how these kids would feel, especially me personally knowing every single one of them. I. I don't know how I would be able to comfort them, but I don't know how you are going to be able to fill the shoes of a person that is so unique and spectacular. This is coming from somebody that has never even had her in the classroom. And that's all I have to say. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[8875-73] Barbara Richards | Public commenter, Ward 3; accounting and business instructor, Sugar Ri | 2017-01-18
PREV> Barbara Richards: gone into the three year honors program. We've had students who have graduated from those institutions, and they've received their bachelor's degree, their master's degree. And we have some students who are working on their CPAs, and their degrees have been in not just accounting.
TEXT> Some have been in business management, business administration, economics, and so forth.  And the good thing for them is  that they're earning more currently  than I am after 40 years with a master's degree. And that's a wonderful thing for them. I'm not complaining.  I'm not,  they have many of our students career in tech. Ed used to be called vocational education, but that isn't a very popular term. So we've gone to career in tech Ed, and that these programs were started so that students could participate in courses that would allow them to be able to find positions in the community, that the community could have a workforce, that they could have productive employees. As a result of students taking courses in the career and tech ed programs. And I'm happy to say that we have been able to do that. We've had many students who have gone right from high school into many of the businesses in Claremont, the Upper Valley, those who have graduated from their programs in college, have gone to work in Boston, Manchester and many other cities.  So we do provide a viable workforce.
NEXT> Barbara Richards: I've had students who've had the opportunity for cooperative education, which meant that they not only earned credits while they were, earning their accounting, but they also could earn an

[8875-74] Barbara Richards | Public commenter, Ward 3; accounting and business instructor, Sugar Ri | 2017-01-18
PREV> Barbara Richards: students who have gone right from high school into many of the businesses in Claremont, the Upper Valley, those who have graduated from their programs in college, have gone to work in Boston, Manchester and many other cities. So we do provide a viable workforce.
TEXT> I've had students who've had the opportunity for cooperative education, which meant that they not only earned credits while they were, earning their accounting, but they also could earn an additional credit for the work that they were learning at a job site. And many of the students would get jobs as juniors, as seniors, higher paid, far above the minimum wage. And then many times they were hired by those employees when they came back from college. So it was a viable workforce for  the people in the community. Not only do we have with the running start, but we also offer leadership opportunities as a career in tech ed program.  We are to offer students a leadership opportunity, and that's done through what we call CTS, OHS, career and technology student organizations. And so the Future Business Leaders of America is an organization that's offered, and students have an opportunity to network with other students throughout the state by attending fall leadership and state leadership conferences. And at those conferences there are competitions. And at the state competition, students have to take an academic test and they it can be anywhere from 350 to 500 students.  There are a variety of tests, like there could be a test in accounting, economics, personal finance, desktop publishing, word processing, and so forth. So they're competing. I'm happy to say that we've had many state leaders and I've taken students to national conferences.
NEXT> Barbara Richards: We've had students who have gone to Nashville, Tennessee, Anaheim, California, San Antonio, Texas, as a result of how well they did on those, in those competitive events. So I

[8875-75] Barbara Richards | Public commenter, Ward 3; accounting and business instructor, Sugar Ri | 2017-01-18
PREV> Barbara Richards: students. There are a variety of tests, like there could be a test in accounting, economics, personal finance, desktop publishing, word processing, and so forth. So they're competing. I'm happy to say that we've had many state leaders and I've taken students to national conferences.
TEXT> We've had students who have gone to Nashville, Tennessee, Anaheim, California, San Antonio, Texas, as a result of how well they did on those, in those competitive events.  So I would like you to reconsider the cut that is being viewed for this position, whether it be me or someone else. I just think it's a travesty that we would take away from this wonderful technology center and the opportunity that students have either to  learn, skills that they want to for their personal use or if they want it to become their vacation, or they want to not go into work immediately from high school, but they want to go into a college program. I just think, I would hope that everyone would consider that reduction because it is a viable program and it's proven itself over the years. Unfortunately, as a result of the student population lowering the enrollment in the elective courses, which career in tech education is, then there's not as much of a sign up. I would at one point had hoped that career in tech at at least one semester would have been required.
NEXT> Barbara Richards: Of all students attending Stevens High School, I think that any course that was offered through, our sister campus in Newport or this campus is viable for any student, whether

[8875-76] Barbara Richards | Public commenter, Ward 3; accounting and business instructor, Sugar Ri | 2017-01-18
PREV> Barbara Richards: the student population lowering the enrollment in the elective courses, which career in tech education is, then there's not as much of a sign up. I would at one point had hoped that career in tech at at least one semester would have been required.
TEXT> Of all students attending Stevens High School, I think that any course that was offered through, our sister campus in Newport or this campus is viable for any student, whether they're considering career in ticket or some other,  pathway.  And so that's why I have come at spur of the moment. I've heard rumors that this position may be being cut. And so I would request that you reconsider that. And I know that as I look about that, I  have current students here. They didn't know that I was coming, but I have current students, I have former students, I have students of students that I've had, and I'm almost on the great grandchildren. So that's a bit of a concern to me. But I just have to say that for me, this is how I got into, my profession is that I took all the required courses I needed for college, and then I filled in with business electives, and I had two wonderful teachers, and they allowed me the opportunity to try teaching accounting. I did it, and they said, why don't you go to school to become a teacher? And that's what I did. And I've never looked back and I've really enjoyed it. So I hope that we could offer this service to the students and the community of Claremont. Thank you for your time.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Thank you. I did a question about, I guess on the presented budget items.

[8875-81] Kiara Knight | Public commenter, Stevens High School student and unified track athlet | 2017-01-18
PREV> Kiara Knight: significant amount of support outside of the classroom. After teaming up with Mr. House, Stevens old athletic director, Miss Hamilton started what is now called our Unified Sports Teams. These teams give the adaptive kids a chance to excel and break out of their shells.
TEXT> As athletes, we team up with these kids and compete against other unified teams in sports such as basketball and track. Miss Hamilton would be a terrible loss to not only the school as a whole, but to the adaptive program as well. She has shown so much dedication to both students, her own students, and to the adaptive kids, and witnessing the kind of things that happen while in practice are on the team. It's really heartbreaking to know that these kids might have to lose one of their favorite teachers walking in the hall. As Brian had said before, they really take on to Miss Hamilton. They love her and they look up to her, and it kind of goes in with the routine. They need that routine in their life. It's it's like for me, it kind of think of when I go away and my cats are back at home and they're thinking, oh, where did my humans go? I feel like that's kind of what runs through their head. They don't take in the fact that she's gone and they're really it's really going to be heartbreaking to watch them if she leaves. She's been a huge help to not only me and my sports.  I've always had a rough time with physical education, and I've always been lost in the kind of idea of healthy, what's healthy and what's not.
NEXT> Kiara Knight: And I've now taken three courses with Miss Hamilton and it's really showed me what is healthy. She showed me I'm not a gym person, but, you know, she takes

[8875-82] Kiara Knight | Public commenter, Stevens High School student and unified track athlet | 2017-01-18
PREV> Kiara Knight: heartbreaking to watch them if she leaves. She's been a huge help to not only me and my sports. I've always had a rough time with physical education, and I've always been lost in the kind of idea of healthy, what's healthy and what's not.
TEXT> And I've now taken three courses with Miss Hamilton and it's really showed me what is healthy. She showed me I'm not a gym person, but, you know, she takes you in and through those other courses that we've started like fitness and nutrition or just lesser gym classes, you know, they take you in and personalize and they show you that everybody can have a healthy lifestyle. You don't have to go in and do a gym class and play basketball or dodgeball. And that's really helped me in the long run. And I think that you really need to two teachers to fill that expectation. As she said, there's a lot of students in the school, and me personally, I struggled finding time to put my gym credits in already with two teachers, and so it should be a huge loss not only to the school, but to the kids. Thank you.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Thank you.

[8875-85] Kyle Grant | Public commenter, Stevens High School student council president (self- | 2017-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> My name is Kyle Grant, and I'm also here to talk about the path of Caroline Hamilton and the physical education position.  I am first year  player on the unified basketball team,  and  I haven't had Miss Hamilton as a teacher myself. But just getting to know the students that are on the team as the athletes, it really shows their confidence. I asked a student just stopped a random student in the hallway and asked if she ever had Miss Hamilton and what she thought, and she told me  from word. From word. She was a great teacher and we did games and gym. That made me love to go to school when I had her, and I loved to exercise. I think that really shows that. How much of an impact that Mrs. Hamilton has on a student, because I didn't go and search for a particular type of student that would really say something nice about her. I chose a student that, like I said, just stopped in the hall and a lot of students don't live to exercise. And I know for a fact that this one student should not big into sports.
NEXT> Kyle Grant: She's never played on the sports team. Acting is her thing. And just to say that Mrs. Hamilton is the reason why she loves to exercise, I think is very

[8875-86] Kyle Grant | Public commenter, Stevens High School student council president (self- | 2017-01-18
PREV> Kyle Grant: that would really say something nice about her. I chose a student that, like I said, just stopped in the hall and a lot of students don't live to exercise. And I know for a fact that this one student should not big into sports.
TEXT> She's never played on the sports team. Acting is her thing. And just to say that Mrs. Hamilton is the reason why she loves to exercise, I think is very important. I am also on the student council. I'm the current president of it, and last year Mrs. Hamilton was done with being the advisor, and we took in a new advisor. And to be honest, she did, but didn't know a whole lot about student council. So last year's president and this year as myself, we come to her a lot and ask how she did certain things and just kind of sit down and talk to her and things that we are worried about doing, and she really makes it a lot easier. On not being so stressed. And with the unified basketball, she makes all students feel important and needed, like, we matter. She doesn't make she doesn't really make like the athletes feel any different. She treats us as  treats them as they are regular person.  And she's not biased with all members that, like I said, are treated the same. And she creates and builds confidence in each of the members on the Unified Team. Every time they make a basket, they run to her asking for a high five because they know that they that Mrs. Hamilton genuinely cares about her.  So that's all I have to say. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[8875-88] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you.
TEXT> Anybody else from the citizens want to comment? But what's going twice? Before before you guys leave? Because I'm sure a lot of you are going to probably even get started. I just want to say thank you to everyone that spoke and everyone that's here and this this meeting, the last one. You know, I was sitting here thinking, we've been talking a lot about this as a group of what's different this time. We seem to be digging deeper into the budget, and we're really going line by line. We're trying to find it. And it hit me tonight as I'm listening, it's you. It's this, you know, with nobody here. It's a mechanics. It's nothing we do with stuff. When you guys are here, you put a face to the change. You put a face to the money. You put a face to everything, emotion and face. And it does make a difference. I told somebody this after the meeting last time, too. It makes a difference when you're here. It makes a difference when you stand up. And to the teachers, I appreciate it. But to the kids, I appreciate it even more. That's why I'm proud of Claremont.
NEXT> Chris Irish: It's what you guys are bringing to the table. So thank you for coming. And don't ever stop making your fight. I mean, I can't make any promises, but I

[8875-101] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey LeClair has do | 2017-01-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: and maintenance and getting the explanation from all of the different administrators and department heads who control these individual lines about what is the content of those lines. So prior to this process, I didn't know personally what was in all 299 of those lines.
TEXT> I, I can now tell you what's in all of those lines, but I did not know prior to now. So so we certainly can go through line by line. There were some areas in which the we'll just say saw and or administration and board for sake of conversation, which the, the, the administration and the school board agreed in the reduction or was part of the we both kind of came to the same spot. So I don't know if we wanted to discuss those or not. And then there's some areas where, for instance, if we zero all new equipment lines, then it does not make sense to zero all replacement equipment lines. Because if you don't have any money in the budget to repair things that break and you don't have any money in the budget to replace things that break, we could end up in a scenario where we don't have things, and sometimes we need things to be able to deliver programs. So, it's not to say you have to.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Well, the board can choose to do with that what they wish. But, you know, something to consider is if you're not going to buy new things, then you have

[8875-164] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey LeClair has do | 2017-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Have a. So we're starting with line six six.
TEXT> Are we good for the sake of conversation? Are we talking Excel software line number six, or are we going to go by account numbers?
NEXT> Chris Irish: I for me, because I'm looking right at it, you're looking right at it. And anybody else will. Problem I have with Chromebooks. They can't look at it Excel spreadsheet.

[8875-205] Michael Lansing | Bluff School administrator, likely principal (LeClair calls on 'Michae | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: the explanation that I just heard. So my question, I guess, is if there's nothing in this line, will that affect you being able to to do the programs that you do? Sounds more like these are the what ifs scenarios potentially for the year.
TEXT> Yeah. Can I can we run an effective if the question is can we run an effective guidance department. You know without this line the answer is yes. Is it as effective? Who knows. Right. There's that that's the part that's challenging, I think. And I know you know this, but in bluff we get we get a lot of, you know, where we get a lot of new kids every year. And a lot of those kids have specific needs. And, yeah, it's stuff we need to get. And if it doesn't come from here, it may come from something else. And this has been a nice way to to allow my guidance teacher to, to, to get that stuff. But to answer your question, can we get through that? Sure.
NEXT> Chris Irish: What I should have phrase it better. So it wasn't a targeted piece of equipment?

[8875-260] Doug Beaupre | Athletic Director, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Doug Beaupre, a | 2017-01-18
PREV> Alex Herzog: What is The Athletic? Because I'm new to this and, you know, I've worked in colleges, so I'd like to know, what do you guys do for sponsorships. Do you get revenue from sponsorships as well?
TEXT> The only the only money that we get back right now is we do have,  a company in West Lebanon who takes the team pictures and the individual pictures, and we get 10% of of what they, they collect.  There is a, there is a company that I've worked with at my previous job and, I would like to continue the sports posters and again, we would get a percentage of, of what they, what they receive. But, we don't have  and we'll, we'll ask for like, for example, we have coming up with Fall Mountain, we have the hoops for Hope, where we'll be collecting, money for the Norris Cotton Cancer Center. And, and then what we will do is we'll go, we'll get sponsors so that the kids will have the pink warm up, jerseys with the hoop for Hope logo each each year we plan on having something a little bit different, you know,  and we'll have Stephen's and Fall Mountain on that. But as far as sponsorship, that's.
NEXT> Marion: I can add a quick part on that. I don't know if the Stephen's cards would count as a sponsorship, but we do connect with local businesses. So we saw

[8875-276] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-01-18
PREV> Doug Beaupre: and but it's for, you know, when we'll head down a Concord in a couple weeks time with the scholar athletes and, and we'll use, we'll use a, we'll use some of that money so that we can take them out to lunch and, and.
TEXT> Any of the pins left. What's that? Do you have any of the pins left, or are they still are? I had pins made a couple of years ago for the student athletes that go on their varsity letter, there should have been some left. If not, we should be getting more.
NEXT> Doug Beaupre: I haven't, I haven't seen those.

[8875-282] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-01-18
PREV> Doug Beaupre: Stevens.
TEXT> Cardinal pin for all the kids. Got it two years ago and I had a few left that I handed off, but obviously to get to you.
NEXT> Doug Beaupre: But yeah.

[8875-484] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey LeClair has do | 2017-01-18
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Some of those files have some and yeah, you've got you've got in one student's file and you have so many different departments. So if we were like going electronic someday, it has to be kind of.
TEXT> So we haven't arrived operated with that. The printing costs are the bulk of the printing costs, and all of the schools are not actually copying at this point, papers for things like handing out to the board, but more, the student planner agenda that all of the kids at the elementary that have the  handbook in them as well, at the middle school, again, it's the student agenda and the high school, the program of studies. So that's where those things are, duplicated. Now, much of that is online. So that's another area where we can really move to be more electronic. Honestly, I suggestion my husband had after coming home from a recent meeting was can we have a student create an app for their phones that becomes the handbook and agenda and all of that. And so we're moving in that direction again, we haven't arrived yet. So we're able to reduce those costs and you'll see that, you know, the $8,000 printing line at CMS was reduced today by $3,000 to be more reflective of what is necessary. But we. Haven't.
NEXT> Chris Irish: We 1 to 1 with technology. Yeah.

[8875-487] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-01-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: No not.
TEXT> Completely because one of the issues is you you hit on it. You know, we've started I found it one of our teachers would, you know, copying pieces of the textbook and handing out copies and would make one copy emailed to all the kids PDF. They pull it up on their laptops that every classroom has no more paper.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: They're not there yet.

[8875-626] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-54]; chair: 'everyt | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: Well, I guess my thought was we just we just go with it, as is the the 13th of March. That way, if he chooses, we're not going to fill the seat. If he chooses to come and be part of in March, he can.
TEXT> On behalf of the board, I could send Brant a letter discussing or explaining what happened tonight and indicating that his term would be up until the 13th of March.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yep.

[8884-19] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Brian Rapp: Please do. Yeah.
TEXT> Address to the members of the House Education Committee on behalf of the Claremont City Council and the Claremont School Board. I support HB 525, the annual Reduction of Education Stabilization grants will not only negatively impact the school district's ability to deliver an adequate education, but also the city's economic growth. Though we are independent governing bodies, we are dependent upon the same tax base, which has been stressed in recent years due to a number of factors to include a loss in city valuation, decreased state aid and rising personnel costs. During our last revaluation, Claremont lost approximately $110 million in valuation, increasing our tax rate over $5 due to a decrease in state aid overall. Claremont is now responsible for a greater portion of employee retirement benefits, higher percentages of capital improvement costs, and an increased share  of educational costs. In addition, rising health insurance costs and the need to pay competitive wages has resulted in personnel budgetary increases. These factors have contributed to Claremont holding the highest tax rate in New Hampshire, and the ability of our tax base to fund more increases is exhausted. In recognizing this, the city recently halted any spending of discretionary funds, any hiring freeze. In addition, we are considering a 5% budget decrease for the upcoming year. Currently, the Claremont School Board is making cuts to its budget so that there will be no impact to the tax rate in FY 18.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: However, these measures are not sustainable over the long term. The real solution rests with the growth of our current tax base, which cannot happen if local taxes continue to

[8884-116] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: children ages 1 to 2. And if you recall, in the data and the presentation, we were not anywhere near reaching those goals. We were in the 57% tile for one year olds and 29%, I believe, something like that in the two year olds.
TEXT> So the the state goal is 100% screening of children 0 to 6. And we as a community decided because of the the health implications and what is costing us in terms of not just money, but the ability for these children to thrive in an educational scenario. We have to put a stop to this, but we don't even know what we're dealing with if we're not even getting the screening done. So that was priority one. Let's implement a system that is, you know, that reaches our community wide goal, which reflects the state's goal of 100% of children 0 to 6. So as a result of that lunch and learn with a pediatricians at the hospital, their screening rates have skyrocketed in the last 12 months. Remember, only December and January are reflective of this new learning opportunity that they had. But in the last 12 months, the hospital pediatricians screened 137.  But in the last two months, in January, in December and January, 46 was a part of the 137. So in two months they've accelerated the screening process. But it's clear that,  training the pediatricians at the hospital is not going to achieve our 100% goal community wide, because not all children are seen by the pediatricians at the hospital.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So we have to broaden our screening, ability. And but I'm going to get ahead of myself. So anyway, that happened. The screening rates have increased at the hospital. Then

[8884-117] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: part of the 137. So in two months they've accelerated the screening process. But it's clear that, training the pediatricians at the hospital is not going to achieve our 100% goal community wide, because not all children are seen by the pediatricians at the hospital.
TEXT> So we have to broaden our screening,  ability. And but I'm going to get ahead of myself. So anyway, that happened. The screening rates have increased at the hospital. Then the next thing, because the hospital did do that lunch and learn they now met,  one of the criteria to receive free of charge because  Gail, through her office, applied for a federal block grant, they are now receiving a  lead,  a lead testing machine that's valued at $2,500. So now the hospital is going to be getting that. And it's remember, it's the portable one and you just you don't have to do a blood draw and all that. So the kids are more receptive to it. But that's portable. So the hospital is going to be able to assist us in screening kids not only that come to the hospital, but are in other areas of the community. So,  the end that came with the test kit, which is provides about 144 free tests. So I was thinking, and this is where the members of the school board really need to weigh in. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we could achieve that goal and set a school board policy in place, so that you're ready to get 100% screening of children entering kindergarten?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: The the intent is to have that be a requirement?

[8884-132] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Before school starts.
TEXT> Actually this current year, what happened was we delayed the start of school for kindergarten students. So  the teachers in and the rest of the students start on the same day, and then we spend those first three days or so,  conducting the screenings, having an open house for kindergartners and their parents within the school. So there's more of a  developmentally appropriate transition into full time care. Many of our kindergartners have never been in a full day structure setting before, so we do a bit of a transition and and the feedback from the teachers has been very positive about that. Excellent.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may, the the the budget process is coming to to closure soon, which makes me happy. But we'll fill that void very quickly with working on this policy,

[8884-140] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yes. Yes.
TEXT> So the idea would be these are students close soon to become of age. We're going to be going out in the workforce working in these type of, you know, construction and plumbing and, you know, these technical fields. And why not put into the curriculum. It would take perhaps eight hours over two school days training. They would provide the training and all of the there would be no cost to the school district. It would the only  criteria would be just give us 8 to 8 hours in your curriculum in your day, and we'll give you all of the training. And that way, these kids could already be certified to be RFP certified. And then they could, you know, do what they needed to do without exposing themselves. And the people that they're in the area that they're working into. Any lead poisoning, this hasn't been done anywhere else in the state. If we can make it happen here, it's a way to lead the effort.
NEXT> Unidentified: I look forward to that. Yeah.

[8884-156] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (absent at roll call, arrived later) | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Oh, the data shows that, right.
TEXT> So we know so so I think that that's going to be an important way, I think, to push this bill, because I do I think it will be a little bit more controversial or maybe not controversial, but there might be a little bit more hesitation to support it because it could be economically impacts in certain areas. But on the other hand, I think the best way to get support for it is it, you know, we are all paying for it and especially these kids. And I think so that's I think something that tying it almost to the school costs would be a good way to get a lot of legislators and a lot of communities behind it in the same way.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Well, they there is a commission at the state level who's been studying this topic of, you know, lead poisoning, screening, prevention exhaustively. Part of that commission is comprised of

[8884-157] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Patrick Adrian: paying for it and especially these kids. And I think so that's I think something that tying it almost to the school costs would be a good way to get a lot of legislators and a lot of communities behind it in the same way.
TEXT> Well, they there is a commission at the state level who's been studying this topic of, you know, lead poisoning, screening, prevention exhaustively. Part of that commission is comprised of large land landlords, small landlords, and many of them have been very aggressive in finding language that would be acceptable to that industry, because they do want,  people to support this. They they don't want. It's most effective when you get people that want to  abide by the, the law. Because otherwise if you don't do that prep work and that grassroots support work, it's going to go underground. And that doesn't help us. So,  I think a lot of your concerns will be addressed when the bill is actually released. The language is acceptable to the commission. And like I said, they just did their final negotiations at 4:00 yesterday. So my request to the delegation and please chime in would be once we know what that bill number is and it's been released, please, anything that you can do to help us,  know where that bill is going when we have to testify.  The data is very compelling that this has implications, cost implications not only to the school district, but to the community as a whole. Not to say anything about the fact that this is about poisoning our kids and and it's irreversible. And it's, you know, we can prevent that. We will be doing a lot for people.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Yes. I was wondering what the number was, but you said there's still no and no number on this bill.

[8884-160] Unidentified | Unidentified - State Representative, Sullivan County delegation (name  | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: She couldn't give it to me when I asked her. So as soon as I have that, I'll send it to you.
TEXT> Okay. If you find out, I did go to one of your last joint meetings in November with the presentation. I said I was here for most of it and I found it very interesting. Learned a lot, but very disturbing and a bit depressing, to be honest with you. But I think it's important that we as legislators know what's going on, what we can do to stop it. But it's not an easy issue because we have so many buildings here in Claremont with lead paint, and you want to protect the kids, but I think some landlords and some are not going to be worry about the cost. I'll be, you know, looking at it from the other side. But I think we've got to do something to get rid of this hazard.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Well, I think Councilor Raymond he, his company works with installing windows and.

[8884-162] Keith Raymond | Claremont City Councilor (addressed as 'Councilor Raymond' and 'Keith' | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Well, I think Councilor Raymond he, his company works with installing windows and.
TEXT> We have to be we are certified and we have to test on. You're required. And the problem out there is, you know, when I go, you go out to sell a window and you find it. And somebody like you said, the landlord issue is a problem. So it's a very expensive to do the cleanup. So it drives the cost up. And so they don't do the job. And then, you know, they find somebody that will do it for next to nothing. So that's what happens. But you know so it's there's a lot of people that aren't certified and just not a paying paying attention to it. So just it's all about education, teaching these people out here. It's the right thing to do. We're doing it for our children in our community.
NEXT> Unidentified: So yeah, I think even that that.

[8884-197] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-01-24
PREV> Keith Raymond: maintenance, what you got to do. You got to cover everything up in the room. You got to have the Hepa vacuums to clean up the mess. You got to have the wipe downs. You know, the guys, it's not that hard to do, really.
TEXT> So to the mayor's point, though, to me, the pipe dream in my head would be we have it as part of our tech center program. Some of our kids are certified. We find it landlord. It has the issue. He can now hire our tech center kids to go out and do the job as part of their community service or whatever. There's there's a possibility once they're certified.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Counselor.

[8884-214] O'Connor | State Representative, Claremont delegation (surname only on record, 'R | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Anybody else? Representative O'Connor?
TEXT> You know, I think it's, again, another issue that crosses party lines. Yeah. It's all about children. Yeah. Whatever we can do to keep the children safe. You know, I fully support.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay. Thank you.

[8884-221] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: regard to their budget. But I would like to say, having seen the effort that they are making on the 18th, I would like to commend them for, doing a lot of work, trying to find the money to keep, the tax rate from increasing.
TEXT> So  it's it's been a lot of work  the school board has gone through. We've had a couple of  budget meetings where we just sat down and went line through line, and  we've worked very hard to to find the money  without affecting  children's education. And we've done what we can do,  not affect staffing. And  after this meeting, we're going to  go over  some recent reductions  that the the administration has worked on. Saturday, the board had another meeting where we came up with some directives and some actions that we wanted the administration to go by. And,  they've done some work the past two days. And like I said, we'll be looking at that  after this meeting. So we invite you to also stay for that.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Thank you.

[8884-226] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: amount of time, 63%. Also an elderly person. And then I checked another property that had, you know, working couple children in the home and their taxes went up 57%. So it's not an isolated case. And, there's a lot of work to be done.
TEXT> And I know the council is well aware of the needs in the community as far as infrastructure needs. And I know that the school board is well aware of the needs, their educational needs of the children. So I can't say enough how significant this is for both our governing bodies to be working together, because I think there are some things that we can do differently in the future to kind of. Give some relief to this. While the state hopefully grapples with the idea they have a revenue problem in many cases and they've got to come to a solution. So in the meantime, collaboration is the key. And developing partnerships, public private partnerships, that's what's going to  allow this community to grow economically. And that is the bottom line goal, I believe for this community is to grow the tax base. We can't cut our way out of this that we just can't. We cannot. So, I've talked to on the way back to Concord today, the superintendent and I talked about, you know, what are some of the things that might be possible, to do differently. And, and one of the things that we could do is, I don't know, is your CIP developed yet at this point for the school district?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: No, no.

[8884-255] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Unidentified: I mean, I met with.
TEXT> The sugar River Valley Regional Tech staff yesterday, and  one of the concerns that I need their help with as we go forward is improving the access  of this facility for our students.  We didn't talk about adults that you're describing, but this is a wonderful facility. And historically, there have been student access issues. Can't fit it into their schedule. We're looking at,  creating another high school schedule for the fall of 2018. It's going to be done with the faculty administration, the the teachers association working together. And part of that  I we must include part of that to to result in an improved access. And and Nick, I hadn't thought about what you've just said, but why should that be off the table as well? Because if we can expand the utilization of this facility, it's absolutely win win. And we have to we have to we even talked it  going over, I think, but we even talked about,  having students have the opportunity. In fact, even the requirement  of having an exposure to certain technology or career tech education programs, even if they are perhaps have a future that is not necessarily in CTE, it still provides them with that background and an appreciation, which is a lifelong skill. So,  you know, Scott Hope is a part of that. We're going to continue that discussion, but this is going to be planning for the fall of 2018.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Councilor Damron.

[8884-260] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Unidentified: If I may just follow up of.
TEXT> Unintentionally, you can have a schedule, school schedule.  But if the school schedule doesn't have the flexibility where students can access the tech center, then they unintentionally  are  blocked. And so our goal for fall of 2018  is to have that kind of discussion where we break down the barriers and we provide a greater exposure. There are some students who may not have an ambition to be involved with CTE, but once they can be exposed to that,  it may ignite an interest. So right now this is a ten mile high view. Absolutely. But as we go forward together,  there must be more of a blending of access. I mean, there has to be. And then there will be or we're just not serving. Our students.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Have a beautiful building, and it's not the way it should be. Yeah, counselor.

