[7313-144] Bob | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Bob' [200], [673], [747], | 2015-01-21
PREV> Michelle Johnson: Was asked last week I have. 13 teacher preparation students. I have 16 child development and parenting students, and I can't answer how many children's literature students because they start next week.
TEXT> So you have a total of 29 students  now, can you tell me how many of these students got per block?
NEXT> Michelle Johnson: 11? Two? 16.

[7313-156] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Becky' [127], [250], [599 | 2015-01-21
PREV> Bob: you were saying, and she still seems like there's some reduction room in there. And the other thing I'm really offended by, we're running a business and taxpayers are subsidizing that in the Claremont School District. I find that on be honest with you, Becky.
TEXT> Because it's really concerning to me because this is about student learning, and that was the purpose of this building,  and it costs money to have students. And if we're going to I don't mean to use this expression rag on her about this, then we need to pull in every single teacher that's in this building and say to them, to the culinary arts person, why isn't that restaurant open every day? How come you're not making enough money to support that? We need to bring in the building and tradesperson and say, when this was done, we were supposed to build a house a year to cover the cost of that. Why isn't this being done? I feel like she's being singled out because she has a successful program working with the community. I'm not saying that. It's just really concerning to me. I feel like it is a business, but that's the way that it works. Just like the culinary arts thing was supposed to be an opportunity for students to learn a business,  and the building trade was the opportunity for students to learn a business. The plumbing was connected to the buildings trade to take care of those houses that they were building.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: And the machine tool was also, I don't know that that was ever really supposed to be a business. It was never I don't think it was ever sold to

[7313-320] John | Claremont School Board member (first name 'John' per chair [52], [566] | 2015-01-21
PREV> Unidentified: Reviewing these. Want to make sure we take that at the time.
TEXT> That's fine. That's why I want to make sure we weren't you know we can do it after. We can't  goes up or down or whatever. In that the services that we expect or the changes that we were hoping, weather changes in services or change in savings or changes, maybe they cost more that we have time really to review them. We're talking about a lot of people that have dedicated the majority of their careers, a lot of them to our children, to this community. And I think we all have justice that we, we,
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Make the right long term decision.

[7313-438] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Becky' [127], [250], [599 | 2015-01-21
PREV> Unidentified: Okay, okay.
TEXT> I'm I don't have a problem with the the 31,094,382. That's why I asked that question. If I said yes to that, am I agreeing to this? And I just I just cannot feel good about the idea that we're losing a physical half a physical education teacher and a pair for something so important to our students, because that affects students and we're here for student education. The other things I can see, I mean, I understand that these other things can be taken care of in a different way, but I cannot see how a physical education teacher that we need. So that's why I voted. No, because I feel that that money needs to come from somewhere else,  not from a para and a teacher.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[7313-491] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator (named 'Corey LeClaire' by the superintendent [180 | 2015-01-21
PREV> Unidentified: That is.
TEXT> The new positions. The reductions are all, conservative figures based on our current information. The additions are all, yeah, the opposite of conservative figures, high, high ish figures. Just because when, when you're working within this type of a budget. It's not like you can go to the taxpayer if you hire somebody at a higher scale and say, please give me more money. So we needed to be able to plan for that. But those are three  new full, full time teaching positions for kindergarten, one to be at each of the three elementary schools and for the sped pairs, our current kindergarten classes, based on the needs of the students in those classes, they have paraprofessionals in those classes to plan for classes for next year,  new classes, and not to anticipate that there could be a a para need in one of those classes. We could end up stuck if we didn't plan for that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So there's one more point I'd like to make if I could. Bob. Bob, you made a very good point a week or two ago, which is can you ask

[7313-623] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' via the superintend | 2015-01-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Okay. We have we.
TEXT> We'll hold off on roofs. We addressed it this in our one, if that's okay. Good. We have our warrant articles on action items. We do need to accept a gift and a very nice gift at that. We all have a letter that came in. From Linda Lemke Lemke at Mill Travel on behalf of Saw Families in Transition in Claremont, New Hampshire. We would like to thank you for your contribution of children's winter jackets valued at $560. Our need is great here in Claremont, as we have many students that are frequently changing their housing situation and often don't have warm clothes, boots, shoes, etc. these jackets will be a big help. We also want to thank you for choosing us out of the many local agencies in need, and for thinking of the children first above the regular holiday party in your office. Regards. Corey LeClaire.  Terry. Casey. And Jane Collins. So we're voting to accept the contribution of $560 from  Milton Travel. And this is the thank you note that is being sent to them or has been sent to them.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: They chose in lieu of having a holiday party as a company. They chose to make donations of winter jackets, and they chose to donate those to our program here

[7313-670] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' via the superintend | 2015-01-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Differently.
TEXT> We can always come back next time and willing. I'd like him to come forward ASAP. If it has to do with the safety of our kids and transportation that we haven't addressed.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We have process.

[7408-13] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [17], [201], [511]) | 2015-03-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: we will clear and I and some of the administrative team, as well as members of the sugar River Education Association, Cornish Education Association and Unity Education Association, met today with a representative of New Hampshire Department of Ed as well as New Hampshire NEA.
TEXT> And we started to develop some clear plans to have a educator effectiveness model in place, per the Elementary Secondary Education Act flexibility waiver.  And and we're going to be working  on that throughout the winter and spring into the early summer. So and then most likely to develop and implement a pilot, this is in compliance with  the law,  in compliance with  what's expected of us by the New Hampshire Department of Education and in fact, from the federal government. So more information will be forthcoming with that. But it was good to see and have our representatives of the three districts, the SA six,  there  as we start to pull our resources and start to work more closely together. And if all goes as planned and to be determined, we may have one document for for the three districts. So in the essay. So it's we'll have the Claremont School District, the Unity School District, the Corner School District. And each community has their respective collective bargaining agreements, certainly.  But the hope is that we'll take step forward with this to impact instruction and to benefit children with enhanced learning. So more to come.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Thank you. Questions for the superintendent.

[7408-25] Ruth Ramjet | Stevens High School Youth and Government Club student representative ( | 2015-03-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: Thank you David. Others that would like to come forward for citizens comments, please.
TEXT> Hello, I'm Ruth Ramjet, I'm from the Stevens High School Youth and Government Club and  I'm on I'm here on behalf of the advisors of the club  to ask permission to take the youth and government delegation to Concord, New Hampshire.  For the last 17 years, Stevens High School students have participated in the YMCA Youth and Government Student Legislative program. It's a is a two day mock legislature on April 4th and fifth at the state capitol in Concord.  And we lodge at the nearby comfort in  the supervision is provided by the staff of the Manchester area YMCA, as well as  adult advisors from the participating schools.  The two Stevens High School advisors,  Nancy Lewis and Jill Chastain, will also be in attendance as  Chaperons for the trip. And,  it's a great program and we're just asking for permission to send us on this field trip. Thank you.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Wonderful. Anything to add to that? That we need to.

[7408-27] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [17], [201], [511]) | 2015-03-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: Wonderful. Anything to add to that? That we need to.
TEXT> I didn't have any material for you. Okay. It certainly has a  past practice of of Stevens High School participating.  And  I think it's a wonderful opportunity for our student leaders to  be a part of this experience in Concord, and certainly with the proper chaperons, as you've just listed, I wholeheartedly endorse it.  If you'd like more information, I'm sure I can talk with Mrs. Lewis and gather some and send it to you, but I don't have any to give you.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Okay. Is this is this the program? Yeah. Come on, back up.

[7408-72] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Michael Neil' [111], i.e | 2015-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> So on the on the adjusted side what we did is the different. Everything's the same until you get to the 1 to 1 eight. What we did is we took out the cost of the 1 to 1 age. We took out the cost of the student prescribed special services. Psychologist, psychological OTP coda. Those costs are out.  School board other, which is basically the school board legal and the other school board expenditures. And then the saw  costs to increase the total reductions to 2530646. And under this model, we add back in the field trips, because field and athletic trips are something that should be a cost of the calculation, because certainly the other students are sharing in those expenditures. So you divide that again by the ADM a of 52831 comes down to 16995 reduction of 1721. I had initially thought that the reduction would be greater than 9%, but it basically comes out about a 9% reduction. So this would be the cost if you if you stripped out those other, direct costs at 69.95.
NEXT> Richard Madigan: Is that an acceptable practice to strip those out?

[7408-83] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Michael Neil' [111], i.e | 2015-03-04
PREV> Bob: A good question on the one 1 to 1 eight. Why would that be less.
TEXT> Well because what we're doing is we're coming up with a calculation to say, let's calculate the tuition based on the costs that students going to incur. If a district needs a 1 to 1 aid, that would be paid by the district, not as part of the tuition calculation. So what we're doing is we're we're taking  them. We're not having the other districts pay for costs that they're not sharing in those costs. That's why we take out the one to ones. We take out the the transportation. We take out the tuitions. Because oftentimes those are expenses that are paid by the other district. Anyways. So what we're doing is we're putting them in the calculation for the total and then we're charging on top of that if the student needs that service. That's why we were taking those out.
NEXT> Bob: But if a student comes in does need that service, we'd be eating. Acosta and if we take that away.

[7408-107] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [17], [201], [511]) | 2015-03-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: And then in just making comparisons to local. To others, that would be, in effect, competing for the same child and that children are becoming a commodity as it relates to public education right now. What are we looking at as far as competitor tuitions?
TEXT> That's what prompted me, if I may, Richard. That's what prompted me to explore this. Newport was 15,000. They dropped a 135. Senate has gone down a bit to. I don't have the exact figure. I, I certainly would not want to lower the tuition and have the Claremont taxpayer  experience a burden from that. But let us say we could have 10 or 15 students who might not come, will come now because the tuition is lower. And there were times when parents will not wish to have their child come to a school with a high tuition, because they may have to make up the difference of the average that the district agrees to pay. And so the intent of this is not a revenue stream, though there would be an increase. The intent really is to increase the student population to a certain extent, where if we had additional students desiring a certain course, that may be from another community going to Stevens, that is more likely that course would occur, benefiting Claremont student as well as the others. So it really is an advantage when you have a larger number of students in that regard. And in this case,  I did a calculation that, for example, if all of the children  at unity who are now in Newport came to,  Stevens High School, it's a fairly small number.  And let us say, the tuition was 13,500. I mean, I just pulled out of my hat.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: You'd be a small number of students, but the revenue be over $100,000. Above what? Certainly we would take in. None of the students came. So the taxpayer does not.

[7408-108] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [17], [201], [511]) | 2015-03-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: did a calculation that, for example, if all of the children at unity who are now in Newport came to, Stevens High School, it's a fairly small number. And let us say, the tuition was 13,500. I mean, I just pulled out of my hat.
TEXT> You'd be a small number of students, but the revenue be over $100,000. Above what? Certainly we would take in. None of the students came. So the taxpayer does not. There's no impact on the taxpayer,  but we have a additional $100,000 in revenue that we were not going to have with it being where it was. So that's really the theme behind this. And if other districts are lowering, why should we unintentionally be dissuading families from sending their children to Stevens High School?  And the other piece is if money is the dissuading factor. You know, great deals happened in the past several years, and especially with the renovation project and some of the changes  occurring at Stevens.  Let alone the middle school and elementary. So  I believe that there are residents from the surrounding communities who are now starting to look at the Claremont School District. And I would like to make that more inviting versus having a fairly large  tuition. So that's that's the theme behind this.
NEXT> John: That's some other general questions. So as communities in the area that are smaller start to looking at potentially tuition out elementary school students. Which is not common practice in

[7408-113] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [17], [201], [511]) | 2015-03-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: have the room. So this is this is not something that just is a quirk. You're right. There is going to be a trend as the enrollment decreases because the birth rate, if you remember those PowerPoints, has been steadily decreasing the past few decades.
TEXT> And at the capacity issue of school districts or communities being able to sustain their schools in a cost effective way without hurting students. And so the consolidation piece is, is going to, I think, be an ongoing discussion even in yesterday's or today's paper. I think it was in Vermont. There was some discussion about districts blending now.
NEXT> Unidentified: So that's.

[7408-124] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' via the superintend | 2015-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: Discussion.
TEXT> And as we were talking here, I was just looking up. Hanover is 18,000, along with an application process of why do you want to come here?  It seems to me that 9358, which is what our taxpayers are paying for our students to come here, is the low meaning that we would not want to be below that number because then effect. We're subsidizing.  The question is, every dollar above it is offsetting a dollar of tax as I as I see it here. So we can be anything, anything above this 9358 will benefit our taxpayers and will also benefit our school because we have more students, more diversity. And with that comes the greater opportunity to provide diverse curriculum. Mike, if you if you wouldn't mind, is there is is there any process? I can only speak to Vermont where you need to set a single tuition rate, and that tuition rate must be offered to everyone. You can't cut individual deals. So what you offer is what there is.  But I'm New Hampshire is different. Or I guess I don't know what New Hampshire is. What what what do we have available? When do we need to announce?
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Most districts have specific tuition agreements which call for. You have to tell me how much it is going to be by November 1st, because we do not have the

[7408-129] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Michael Neil' [111], i.e | 2015-03-04
PREV> Bob: questions on us when you talk on transportation, I'm assuming like, say, if the bus went to unity B, one central location where they would pick up and drop off, or are we talking door to door service up in unity? If you haven't been.
TEXT> To the elementary school and pick them up in one spot,  you know they have the unity bus, pick the kids up and bring them there.
NEXT> John: Just kind of.

[7408-175] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Becky' [246], [456], [547 | 2015-03-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: Just try and bring together some information requests that we might have for the 18th that might be able to allow us to make an informed decision on this one. So, Becky.
TEXT> I'm sorry, I just wanted to talk about that idea.  I don't know which one of you two said it about how it weakens the essay. You six when we're not providing unity. And Cornish. I mean, Claremont is the high school of saw six. And so to me that means that Cornish and Unity are already a part of that. So I think that that's really where we need to start, because then it brings it all much more cohesive. And if we're supporting this,  curriculum director to go out and make us all cohesive and going the same direction, then those students would be the best benefit for them would be to go to Stevens High School. If we're actually meeting that criteria. And maybe when you talked about the idea that you could say, I know you can't offer different places, different costs, but I think that Cornish and Unity students should be someone kids that we really go after and try to make a part of Stevens High School because to me, their tax is already paying for the superintendent's office.
NEXT> Unidentified: Exactly.

[7408-186] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [17], [201], [511]) | 2015-03-04
PREV> Bob: Do we have tuition students that are saying they want to come here, but it's too expensive to come here at this time?
TEXT> I know that since I've been here in the past four years, I've had three different parents call me  asking for a waiver to make up the difference,  of the  cost of versus what the district will pay. Now, that doesn't answer your question. I don't have a great deal  of data, Bob,  to to drive this conversation. I'm just looking at what's happening regionally  about districts consolidating,  about periscopes going up, looking for what districts, the best for the children and also financially. So I'm sort of feeling this in the area. And I feel our 187 is pushing away. So so what that's about.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Does does Cornish. Let's just take Cornish for example. Let's not take Cornish there in our essay. Let's let's take Plainfield. Does Plainfield have a fixed amount that they will

[7408-191] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator (addressed as 'Corey' [456], [466], [485]; Cory Le | 2015-03-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: So says $15,000 is what we'll pay for high school.
TEXT> Exact figure. But we will pay X dollars and it's anything  above that. Your your the family is responsible for paying. Because I had a conversation with Leinster superintendent this fall,  about a potential tuition scenario. And they said that our kids often don't go. She told me on the phone that our kids don't typically go to Claremont because our tuition is higher than what their rate is. So in our information gathering process, I'm wondering if we should figure out of the schools within a geographical  relevant location, what their cap is to.
NEXT> Unidentified: To get it.

[7408-239] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [17], [201], [511]) | 2015-03-04
PREV> John: Have Unity or Cornish at their board meetings. Asked you if Claremont could lower their tuition rate. Have they actually brought it up?
TEXT> Well, I brought it up actually without without talking to any of you. Right. And but in the spirit of full disclosure, I just want to let them know I very much like to have this discussion with the Claremont School Board, so I cannot tell you I have their support, but I'm confident that they would. Alisa, let me try to explain that. So so, you know, and, it's the residents. Residents are looking  at their tax dollars. And the cost I had was last year, and one of our sister communities, a gentleman, stood up and said, look, I've done the math. If we close our school and send our children to X, we're going to save over $1 million a year in tax dollars. This gentleman wasn't, but I think it's just unfortunate because, you know, the school in a community is very important, but it's a matter of what can the residents bear?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Okay, further on this, we'll bring this up again on the next one.

[7408-252] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' via the superintend | 2015-03-04
PREV> Richard Madigan: Kids.
TEXT> Kids have become commodities when it comes to public education. And if I if I've got a child. What are you what are you willing to provide us for our children to come to? Your school.
NEXT> Richard Madigan: Won't know that Jake Woven asked them to go hustle them. Yeah.

[7408-264] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' via the superintend | 2015-03-04
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: I would be interested in finding out more about what David was talking about. About offering the group discount. Discount for both Cornish and Unity as being part of Sussex I.
TEXT> My understanding is Newport is in the midst. It's trying to work that out with Goshen. They are  they have a but then all the children from Goshen come to Newport. So I think that's the that's sort of a sticking point right now.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It is.

[7408-369] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [17], [201], [511]) | 2015-03-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I think the product, as represented by our current administrative staff indicates that it works. What's great about it is that it's inclusive and it invites parents who are invested community members, faculty and listening to the input from parents and staff at the forums.
TEXT> It helps to clarify who the Bluff Elementary School community feels should be the next leader. Next leader meeting their skill set. That was exactly the case a few weeks ago with Cornish.  Added been a great resource to help us the the individual as far as individuals characteristics and strengths. A principals position is a critical position. Aside from a you've heard me talk about the importance of the classroom teacher impacting student learning in the school base or the school site. It's the teacher that teacher skills are critical right in the back of that of the principles of instructional leaders skills and how those two work hand in hand, working with the community, working with the parents, working with the students. That does make the difference. So that's why this is not this is a very, very important process. The instructional leader can make or break a school. And I look forward to this continuing on. So you'll be involved with this toward the end of April. And you if all goes as planned the first week in May, I will introduce to you the next instructional leader of the Bluff Elementary School.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Questions for Middleton on this. Next item. Claremont School District 20 1516 budget.

[8114-61] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (named 'Michael O'Neill' in the motion a | 2016-01-09
PREV> Michael O'Neill: because we had to go the other way, and we had to actually try to increase that benefit slightly for people. So what we're proposing is a health change from a 50% district contribution to a 6535 split with a district put 65% contribution in.
TEXT> Now, the  cost of that health insurance change is 42,002.  41.  There was also a question as adding days for makeup days and or  adding a day at the beginning of the school year. Currently they have one day before the school year. The staff indicated that they thought they really needed another day to get with the teachers, and to to realize what their assignments were so that they could be prepared when the children arrived on the first day of school. The cost of the additional three days of pay is what we based it on is 38,206. And then, you know, they had wanted significant wage percentage increases. But as I said before, due to the size of the union, it was cost prohibitive. So we agreed to do a step increase for everybody with no increase in the wages salary  scale at all. We did delete the bottom step to get the starting wage slightly higher and add a top step that was 2.89% higher than the other steps, which was consistent with how we had done it in the past. That way, the people at the top of the steps would still get an increase. Even though the salary scale didn't increase. So the total cost of that agreement is 143,449.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[8114-65] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' and ASR 'Milton') | 2016-01-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: teachers or administrators. An adult just doesn't build a relationship or learn about a child as if they are dealing with paperwork. And the goal is to find the best men and women, and then to retain them and have them work effectively with students.
TEXT> So part of this is also retention, and we are several dollars below other districts around us for paraprofessionals. So it's a it's money. Yes. But it's also retaining those who we want to work with our children for the benefit of our children versus a revolving door. So we again, the amount of money is not taken lightly. But we've got a fish cut bait. If we're going to make progress with our students and meet their needs.
NEXT> Chris Irish: What was the the average hourly wage for a parent?

[8114-73] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' on the record: [105 | 2016-01-09
PREV> Michael O'Neill: And 83 currently.
TEXT> Total that up. Compensation for a paraprofessional $16,372 a year.  I think that's embarrassing as it relates to any public school system. Pays someone $16,372 a year. This is not a livable wage by any stretch of the imagination. Most of our paraprofessionals, if you would like to meet them, are working second and third jobs around our town. If you go in and you sit in the school system  and you participate for a day with the teachers, the paraprofessionals  are critical to what goes on in our schools. If you sit in an elementary school because of the range of abilities of some of the students in the class, the teacher is working with one part of the class, the paraprofessionals working with another. And that's only for those that are working within regular education. When we go over to special education and some of the challenges that our paraprofessionals take on in special education, it's a whole different story. What we're talking about here is a group of people which keep our system working, and which historically have not had a very strong negotiating unit.  As Mike said, over the last eight years, five of those years, there were not agreements and therefore wages were kept flat. We are in competition for these people with everyone  around the area.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Everyone relies on paraprofessionals. We have some that have been here for many, many years and keep coming back. And it's more calling than it is. I'm getting wealthy doing

[8114-74] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' on the record: [105 | 2016-01-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: and which historically have not had a very strong negotiating unit. As Mike said, over the last eight years, five of those years, there were not agreements and therefore wages were kept flat. We are in competition for these people with everyone around the area.
TEXT> Everyone relies on paraprofessionals. We have some that have been here for many, many years and keep coming back. And it's more calling than it is. I'm getting wealthy doing this. In some cases, those had taken actually have to pay us to work at the school system in order to cover the insurances that they're getting. So this is not this is not some kind of a grand scheme. This is not trying to make a group of our employees wealthy in what we're doing here. This is trying to stay competitive. So at least we can attract the number of people we need in order to be able to  run the system and run what our school is doing. But keep in mind, at the average, we're talking a $16,000 salary and say, that's not that's not a livable wage. That is just a part of the overall package for these younger, primarily women. But men and women who are working with our kids each and every day. So just to put those numbers into perspective,  Chris.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Mike touched on it and you said the one thing I wanted to make sure everybody was clear of in this contract and all the others. There is no absolutely

[8114-81] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator (title not stated on this recording; Assistant Sup | 2016-01-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: Others questions for my questions.
TEXT> I just add one thing. Okay. What we do end up facing with Paras more than any other are vacancies throughout the school year. And so, one of the hidden costs of those vacancies is with some of our students, we are required  to have a staff person with them based on their individualized education plan. And so we have had to use substitutes to cover one on one positions, because we can't  hire the the full time staff member for those. And so, increasing the attraction of this contract, I think will help to actually alleviate some other costs, other hidden costs that we're currently paying and, and, provide more stability for our students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. And I would I would add, they really are the underpinnings which allow us to allow teachers to do what it is they need to do. My experience

[8114-118] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator (title not stated on this recording; Assistant Sup | 2016-01-09
PREV> Chris: Transportation services, any services written into that, that particular student's IEP.
TEXT> And these kids aren't staying in a in a regular Manchester public school in Manchester, they had been placed in a specialized school to meet their needs, and that's where they are.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So they were already they were already there.

[8114-127] Chris | SAU 6 special education administrator (first name 'Chris' per chair [2 | 2016-01-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: Okay.
TEXT> So recognizing that and then working with with Mike here, I think we're going to continue to look at how do we reduce those transportation dollars. How do we reduce that number. Because that's another one of those those numbers that can fluctuate up or it can fluctuate down depending on where your kids are in terms of their out of district placement of their Brattleboro, whether they're Kindle Farm to Vermont, whether they're  at Spaulding Youth Center, where those those places are we we're we're on the we're responsible to to provide them with transportation back and forth.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So do.

[8114-136] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' and ASR 'Milton') | 2016-01-09
PREV> Chris: Our and a half could be an hour, an hour and a half each way.
TEXT> So? So it's much better for the child.
NEXT> John: Understand?

[8114-154] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' on the record: [105 | 2016-01-09
PREV> Chris Irish: Very many left, not to 111. You know, all the ones around us.
TEXT> And what was in left. But I mean, we have the data that we were given on homeless and our homeless number is  at 11.9%. The next closest is 5.5% in Newport, right, 5.2 in Littleton. I mean, there's more to it than that. And I just want to be sure that we don't that we don't that that that may be a part of it. One other piece that I think we have to be very careful of. And normally Middleton would chime in on this and I'm going to chime in on his behalf. The state of New Hampshire requires an adequate education for every child. And that's that's it's the basis of  the Claremont judgment. It's the basis of the way our public school system input. So we can't put this group of kiddos out there as the cause or  anything else. Another part in New Hampshire. And Mike can speak to this from his experience. We don't get support for special ed education, even though we're required to provide special ed education. So normally there would be a rebirth that comes from the state, or there would be certainly an extraordinary reimbursement above a certain number.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: You get the money back, that number keeps going up and you don't get it this year, you get it next year. There is a incredible weakness in the budgeting

[8114-155] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' on the record: [105 | 2016-01-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: this from his experience. We don't get support for special ed education, even though we're required to provide special ed education. So normally there would be a rebirth that comes from the state, or there would be certainly an extraordinary reimbursement above a certain number.
TEXT> You get the money back, that number keeps going up and you don't get it this year, you get it next year. There is a incredible weakness in the budgeting process for public education. On special ed in the state of New Hampshire, I can speak to Vermont.  In Vermont, it's 53% reimbursement on special education this year above $50,000, 90%. And that number comes back this year. So we know what it is. We set our budget at that. And that's your investment that you make within the Vermont school system. New Hampshire has just pushed it down, and we're struggling with it as many others, but we're struggling with it because we're required to provide the education. We're required to fund the education, and we're required to float the state until next year. So it's not a simple answer that we have here. I've been remiss in and still getting my schedule to tie up with our mayors, to get a chance to sit down and really start to delve into how we how we do this. But let's remember it's our responsibility to provide an adequate education to every child. So let's not stigmatize this group, but let's expose what the weaknesses are in the financial structure  and why. You know, we're spending $7 million out of a $30 million budget on just this one, just this one expense line item.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, I think I think we just crossed into we've got two different conversations going outside. I think the special ed is a very different conversation than what Bob just

[8114-166] Bob | Claremont School Board member (first name only; says he is resigning f | 2016-01-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: Bob.
TEXT> When I'm about to say I know it's going to offend somebody, but he meant to, but I'm going to say it anyways. Over the last couple of years, I've had a lot of parents come to me complaining about their kids getting, the IPS put on them and the parents come right out and say the only problem with their child is they're they're lazy. And quite frankly, like I said, this has come from the parents, not from me. Is there an independent company out there that would come in and do an IEP on each one of the students to verify the IEP?
NEXT> Chris: Not that not that I know of, but I can tell you one of the things that we are doing at this particular point is we have contracted with, which

[8114-170] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board member (named in roll call 'Chris. Irish.' [61] | 2016-01-09
PREV> Cory LeClair: also important to note, when you're talking with those parents that, no IEP can be put in place without parental sign off. So all of those parents who were making those comments to you, they signed off on that and they approved of that IEP.
TEXT> I think I think that's an excellent point. And I think there's another extreme that I've had experience with parents that they use the I, I EP, they abuse the privilege as anything we have. And it's not a majority, but there are definitely people out there who use the IEP to protect potentially parent their kids so they don't have to. I mean, there's no clear way to say it. So I think we need to take a hard look at that. And do we know ballpark out of all our kids, how many percentage wise have IEPs? Yes.
NEXT> Chris: I think we're somewhere between fluctuates. We're somewhere between 23 and 25%. Right.

[8114-183] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board member (named in roll call 'Chris. Irish.' [61] | 2016-01-09
PREV> John: Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you. I think this goes back to Richard's point earlier to and I wanted to be very clear. This to me is not even a budget issue. This is a why issue. It's a problem and it's not. So we stigmatize anybody, but we make sure the kids that really need it get what they need and not at the expense of of other kids. But, you know, their kids are getting things they don't need, and other kids who really need it aren't getting it. And we're at that point, you know, it's easy. We'll cut budgets. It's not that simple. We need to start really being frugal with where our efforts are going to make sure they're going to the right kids. I think. I think Bob's spot on. And you know, what just happened two seconds ago to me is a bigger picture of this whole conversation. You don't know who heads who. The head of Head Start. I don't know who the head of. I don't know the other agencies. We should so be interlocked with this now that we should know each other by first name and have coffee every day, but none in the city. We have all these agencies who don't work together well or at all. And I think that's where  with the new council and the board that we have now, this is the best opportunity for me in 15 years to finally do something about it in this city.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And some agencies are more willing to have a conversation than others because. I've been yeah, I've. When I pulled the numbers, for instance, around the homeless population, it alarmed

[8114-217] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator (title not stated on this recording; Assistant Sup | 2016-01-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: We see. Seeing we brought it up. Corey LeClair has been, on a treadmill with architects, engineers. And, Corey, could you just give us a big picture as as we've passed a couple of months.
TEXT> So, there's been a few moving pieces in a bigger picture of how do we provide the best education for the students we have, in the most fiscally responsible manner. So one of the programs that Chris mentioned is the art program, when we were able to bring that in-house, when we when when Pat. And I think Chris presented that to this board last year during the budget season. It was presented under the guise of developing an in-house program, but not at not physically housed within the high school for a variety of reasons. That particular population, would perform potentially better and differently in a, in a setting that was not physically within the walls of the high school. So we've been looking at variety of properties around town. And so there's there's a couple of thoughts on the table right now. And these are just still in sort mode, not anything concrete. So I just that's a big caveat on the front side of this. Okay. We have looked at different buildings in town and have had the architect go through to identify what the renovation costs of those would be to get those buildings to educational code. Educational code is very different and much more restrictive than other code regulations, and therefore requires more money to to meet those requirements. There are through the city there are CBE c g.
NEXT> Unidentified: Did I get.

[8114-337] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (named 'Michael O'Neill' in the motion a | 2016-01-09
PREV> Unidentified: Again, in everything.
TEXT> Of computers for the students and determined that we didn't need to buy two carts in additional Chromebooks. Is that correct? Me?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes. That's correct.

[8114-493] John | Claremont School Board member (first name only, 'John' per chair's rec | 2016-01-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: as something that they they didn't approve by a very small margin. But it does impact security. So John, am I correct that your putting this on the table to ask the board, they want to put that into the budget versus maintain a warrant.
TEXT> We just need to discuss it. It's, it's important the safety of our students and staff and the way we treat our employees in students is very you know that's crucial critical. It's a top of the line. And the fact is that people are safer at Stevens High School than the other buildings. Now, that's not equal. And we need to solve that problem. And if it's a four year or five year goal to get there, or a one year goal or whatever it is, we need to solve it.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, I think considering the conversation we had during the whole open lunch fun time.

[8114-496] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board member (named in roll call 'Chris. Irish.' [61] | 2016-01-09
PREV> Unidentified: A lot.
TEXT> Of that had to do with security and us pushing  Nathan to do it exactly what he's doing, and start coming up with a better security plan and start funding it. And I'm I'm with John. I think it at some point we've got to be what we're elected to do and why we get paid the big bucks and say, this is what we think is the right thing to do as part of this budget. And we put it in and I absolutely think this is a budget item that we've been driving this train since it started. I don't think  it's it's easy to dump it, to  put it on the warrant, knowing full well it's probably going to fail. So we did our job and we get off the hook. I'm not  I think we need to step up and say, I think this is part of the budget. It's important to our kids and to our school district and we've been asking for it. So this part of the budget.
NEXT> John: And security upgrades, part of the Capital Improvement Plan.

[8114-564] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board member (named in roll call 'Chris. Irish.' [61] | 2016-01-09
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> I want to kind of speak to that though, because I don't think it's appropriate or fair that we just take a and  I don't have an issue with you wanting to cut stuff, Bob, I really don't, but  I have a real issue with saying I want to cut 20% of the teachers.  Go figure it out. They've given us what they believe is the best budget to educate our kids. They're going to come back again and say, these are the teachers. We think we should have it. They're not going to cut just because you want them to. If you got something you want, you want to do or you got specific teachers, not personal, but specific program teachers that you think you need to be cut. You need to put it on the table and say, I want to cut this, and we'll talk about it. I don't want them wasting their time. They've given us their best shot at what they think they need to run this school district. For me to say, cut 10%, go. No, that's not their job. To make me feel better because I want to cut 10%. If I want to cut 10%, I better be able to say, I want you to cut that bus, that teacher, that school bus.
NEXT> Bob: We don't have that authority, Christian. You know that.

[8114-587] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board member (named in roll call 'Chris. Irish.' [61] | 2016-01-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: But we're also getting from the administration. I believe that these would be wise investments, not mandatory, but wise, and we'll get both sides of it as we go into the next discussion, and it will address your side of this question also. Okay, Chris.
TEXT> One statistic I can we get because it has come up a few times. Well, our class our population is down. Why is the budget up. It's always that generic term. So can we just get a good layout of what our student population is actually doing at the levels? Are we really decreasing in population or are we increasing population? I mean, I  numbers just because that's it's always that generic statement and I don't I don't know if it's true or not, but population down budget up. Why. But I don't think our population is actually down.
NEXT> Unidentified: But I'd like to.

[8114-624] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' on the record: [105 | 2016-01-09
PREV> Michael O'Neill: system as it is. And if you find it out, that's probably going to end up being as well, unless we can get a 30 or 40% increase in the people eating. I don't think there's that many people in the buildings to do that.
TEXT> I guess I, I don't know the answer. I don't know how much what percentage of our students actually eat in any of the buildings. So I, I don't know what 30% actually is if we're at 20% and.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's a.

[8114-642] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' on the record: [105 | 2016-01-09
PREV> Michael O'Neill: And if you if your number is not in the 75 to 80% range, it doesn't. It's not it's not beneficial to you other than providing a meal to everybody.
TEXT> Well, I guess that's that's part of what I'm looking at with some of the other issues we've spoken about of are we, you know, our kids coming into school, bed number one. And the ones that we know of are, but the ones we don't know of aren't and, you know, is this part of the overall solution. And can we end up, you know, trying to solve a couple of problems.
NEXT> Unidentified: Districts.

[8114-648] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' on the record: [105 | 2016-01-09
PREV> Michael O'Neill: The other question is maintenance.
TEXT> Well, before we leave food, because there was another issue that was out there, just related to the quality of the offerings that we had for our students. And we had feedback from students, and we had an enormous amount of input also from those that are doing our food service, which we have great respect for. But if we brought those two, even if we brought them closer, I mean, the kids not eating because they don't like the food are they haven't been able to change things. I mean, there's there's more to bringing in an outside service than just the financial.
NEXT> Unidentified: Side, right?

[8114-694] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' and ASR 'Milton') | 2016-01-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: reviewing the minutes that you received last night, you'll get a sense as to where we are attached to. Today's agenda is just a financial overview or picture of revenue versus expenses. But this discussion is not being driven by money, though money is important.
TEXT> Obviously, it's being driven by are we providing students, high school students with career and tech ed opportunities? And in this particular case, we're talking about a teacher prep program where a high school student interested in becoming an educator or in the field of education can acquire firsthand experiences with a cross-section of different children. Elementary, middle preschool, or pre-K, if you will. And the other piece is opportunity to have college credit, have a running start or catch the wave opportunities where they can  acquire courses and education that one would in a college or university setting, as one moves toward graduation. So that's the theme behind this. And and it is in a line with the New Hampshire Department of Education's expectations. Established in 2013, the early childhood education program that we have now, which is a wonderful, wonderful program. But it wasn't designed to be an early childhood education program. It was designed to provide high school students with career and technology opportunities. So, a long winded response. But just so you know, we're not there yet, but we will be there with concrete recommendations, no later than the 19th of January. We've earlier this week, we met with the Department of Education explaining our plan, which is a soft model still being shaped. Their input indicated that we're on point and we're going in the right direction. They would support us on a multi-year phasing. So stay tuned.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Questions for Middleton on this one. So just to clarify on the numbers you gave us here today, it shows a net cost of 107,000. That 107,000 is still in

[8114-785] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' on the record: [105 | 2016-01-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: another whole summer of hiring teachers. You're not doing complete criminal investigation background checks, because that's what the current state statute doesn't require it. So you brought into the system all of these teachers and you don't you don't really know what you're dealing with.
TEXT> The argument behind it is find the the political positioning is frustrating. And, and I'm only half kidding. How can we get a law through that puts silencers on hunting rifles and do that like this and not protect the children that we have in our schools? I don't get it. I'm on my soapbox. I'm off my soapbox. I'd like to put $20,000 on as a warrant article that regardless of what goes on in Concord, we have the ability potentially at least, to try and figure out a solution that protects our kids.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: I don't have the date for when SB 152 is going to the House Education Committee, but again. Yeah, please draft something.

[8162-54] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-02-03
PREV> Heather: Any nays? Guys have it. This has been accepted. At this point. I believe there's a PowerPoint presentation.
TEXT> Thank you. Good evening. Very much appreciate. Residents coming out for this very important meeting and deliberative session of the. The purpose of tonight's PowerPoint is to provide an overview of the school district budget. But I'm going to take a different tact this evening and start off with what school budgets really are all about, because school budgets are much more than just numbers.  And the district budget is important because school districts are created not to give adults like me jobs, but to educate the children of a community. And these children of a community are all very different. Different sizes, different colors, different needs. But each is entitled by law for in a free and appropriate education. And that wasn't always the case. Half a century ago, up to 50 years ago. The color of your skin or your ability to read and write oftentimes dictated whether you were going to receive a free and appropriate education. And many, many children, entered into adulthood with inadequate skills. Some were able to survive because of how business was done with a lack of automation and manual labor and all. But those days are long gone. So why school districts are important, whether you're a little girl, whether you're in elementary school, middle school, or high school student school districts, and the budget process is a critical component in preparing the use of a community for their future.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And as I said last month, children don't have 2 or 3 chances of going through a public school education. They have one chance of passing through pre-kindergarten through grade

[8162-55] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-02-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: are long gone. So why school districts are important, whether you're a little girl, whether you're in elementary school, middle school, or high school student school districts, and the budget process is a critical component in preparing the use of a community for their future.
TEXT> And as I said last month, children don't have 2 or 3 chances of going through a public school education. They have one chance of passing through pre-kindergarten through grade 12. And with a few exceptions, most children. Therefore, the school district is obligated to do the best they can to provide every child with that opportunity. And tonight, what I'd like to do is to talk briefly about what the school budget is about, as measured by our children, by our students. And I'm very pleased at our elementary, middle and high school principals here because I asked them. There are different ways of measuring how well a school district is performing. And I think what's very important to understand is that if you look at one assessment or one indicator and use that to measure a school district or measure how well students are performing, it's no different than measuring the size of an iceberg by the tip above the water. And so I'm going to ask Dan Sherry  and Melissa Lewis,  to come forward and talk about their elementary schools, because the way we're doing business now in the elementary schools is very different from prior years. And  Dan and Melissa.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Absolutely. Dan, Melissa provided this information that talks about students and how they are doing business differently. It's also a measure, by the way, not about our dedicated principals. It's

[8162-56] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-02-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: tip above the water. And so I'm going to ask Dan Sherry and Melissa Lewis, to come forward and talk about their elementary schools, because the way we're doing business now in the elementary schools is very different from prior years. And Dan and Melissa.
TEXT> Absolutely. Dan, Melissa provided this information that talks about students and how they are doing business differently. It's also a measure, by the way, not about our dedicated principals. It's also a measure about our teachers, our professional, dedicated men and women who are very much committed. And the results you're going to see tonight speak to that.
NEXT> Dan Sherry: Good evening, Dan Sherry, principal, Maple Avenue School. The slide that is up there now is part of a process that we are adopting. As part of the support from

[8162-58] Dan Sherry | Principal, Maple Avenue School | 2016-02-03
PREV> Dan Sherry: post assessment is about three weeks. And we'll have some slides to show you, that are coming up I think Melissa slide is next. But one of the things we are seeing incredible gains, but it's also called micro feedback and a micro feedback analysis.
TEXT> We are looking at very, very small skills that we know add up to accomplishing bigger goals and making sure that our children are secure in those skills before we just move on. And so I think if we go to the next slide and I'm not sure is this left and right one, or I'll let you, there we go.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Good evening. I'm Melissa Lewis from the Desert Elementary School. And similar to Maple Avenue, the staff has been working tremendously with their student data in a variety of ways.

[8162-59] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (ASR 'Desert Elementary') | 2016-02-03
PREV> Dan Sherry: goals and making sure that our children are secure in those skills before we just move on. And so I think if we go to the next slide and I'm not sure is this left and right one, or I'll let you, there we go.
TEXT> Good evening. I'm Melissa Lewis from the Desert Elementary School. And similar to Maple Avenue, the staff has been working tremendously with their student data in a variety of ways. Our data teams get together monthly to analyze benchmark not only benchmark data, but also progress monitoring data. When we're looking at our benchmark data for students who have not met the benchmark yet, we come up with an action plan and an instructional plan for those students who need the most intensive instruction. We monitor that in between our data meetings, and then we get together to look at the progress and change plans if needed. So the slide you see before you right now is a piece we learned at our last data meeting, and we're very proud of this is our kindergarten data using the assessment. And at the beginning of the year their overall score. So there's lots of subtests that feed into this. But their overall score showed that 41% of our kindergartners at the beginning of the year met the benchmark. So again, our kindergarten teachers spent a great deal of time looking at that data, talking about what instructional strategies would best meet our students needs.  And when we did our midyear data just a few weeks ago, 72% of our kindergartners have met benchmarks. So very excited and we look forward to that end of year testing. Thank you.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: To jump in to Dibble, standing for dynamic Indicators of Basic Early literacy. And it's a diagnostic. If children reach a benchmark, it's a predictor that most of those children

[8162-60] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-02-03
PREV> Melissa Lewis: talking about what instructional strategies would best meet our students needs. And when we did our midyear data just a few weeks ago, 72% of our kindergartners have met benchmarks. So very excited and we look forward to that end of year testing. Thank you.
TEXT> To jump in to Dibble, standing for dynamic Indicators of Basic Early literacy. And it's a diagnostic. If children reach a benchmark, it's a predictor that most of those children will be able to advance the appropriate capabilities in reading. And when children are identified as an early age, being below or at risk through dribbles, at the indicator of that, there's a need for intensive intervention so long before  children even get into a point where the demands are increasing, they have been identified discretely that there are needs and and when they're young and when the intervention can be intense, much better at that time versus later on in years when the gaps expand. So, and it really is a compliment about the advantages of having a child in kindergarten full day. So a very exciting news.
NEXT> Dan Sherry: Of are the data I'm going to share with you was, verified and presented by our consultant. And so I want to preface that because when some of these data

[8162-61] Dan Sherry | Principal, Maple Avenue School | 2016-02-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: young and when the intervention can be intense, much better at that time versus later on in years when the gaps expand. So, and it really is a compliment about the advantages of having a child in kindergarten full day. So a very exciting news.
TEXT> Of are the data I'm going to share with you was, verified and presented by our consultant. And so I want to preface that because when some of these data points I'm going to share with you  are unbelievable. This first one, for example, is our grade one students  in our first, process of going through that pre assessment, instructing and post assessment, 100% of our first grade students, we could give them a number and they could write that number. We could do a dictation and they could represent that number. They understood the place the magnitude of that number, what digit was in what place, what's the value that if you have 95, that that nine is not for more than the five next to it. Right. It's 85 more than the five next to it count. They were able to count. They were able to count and then write the correctly the number of that count. They were able to put numbers in sequence for a combined score. In this category, 98% of our students have demonstrated that they secured that skill.
NEXT> Dan Sherry: The consultant has never seen numbers like that out of first graders so early on, and we have not been able to celebrate numbers like that at Maple Avenue before.

[8162-62] Dan Sherry | Principal, Maple Avenue School | 2016-02-03
PREV> Dan Sherry: were able to count. They were able to count and then write the correctly the number of that count. They were able to put numbers in sequence for a combined score. In this category, 98% of our students have demonstrated that they secured that skill.
TEXT> The consultant has never seen numbers like that out of first graders so early on, and we have not been able to celebrate numbers like that at Maple Avenue before. That's those are amazing numbers. If we can go to the next slide, this graph is showing pre against post data for a second grade students. So to show you that we gave a pre assessment. And you can see our kids coming in 17% 15% 70. We had 14953 labeling values. Being able to say the labels and the values of putting different things in order and second grade and sequencing. And we have we have jumps after three weeks of direct, intentional instruction, by looking at what they were able to give us, what they could do and could not do, you can see we have gains of 60%, up to 42, and so on and so on. We have the ranges is pretty remarkable.  And I believe that at the end of this you're saying, well, okay, so what about the ones that are 52 and 35. Those skills are ongoing. And it's up to the teachers to decide if we're going to continue in that skill based area or if we're going to move on. And I believe actually on this one, that the second grade did move on.
NEXT> Dan Sherry: I mean, did one more round of two weeks and then had another data point after that. We can show the last one. This again was feedback for grade four

[8162-63] Dan Sherry | Principal, Maple Avenue School | 2016-02-03
PREV> Dan Sherry: and 35. Those skills are ongoing. And it's up to the teachers to decide if we're going to continue in that skill based area or if we're going to move on. And I believe actually on this one, that the second grade did move on.
TEXT> I mean, did one more round of two weeks and then had another data point after that. We can show the last one.  This again was feedback for grade four students, again relating the communicative property of addition and community property and comparing that with multiplication and division. As a predecessor, we saw our kids did not have those skills at all. We look at all their mistakes. We look at what they don't understand about that skill and concept. We pick specific interventions to try and 2 to 3 weeks later based. The only factor is the instruction. It's the instruction that we're delivering. The teachers are delivering to our kids. We're seeing gains of 50%, 60% all the way across the board. And that has been happening now since September. We what we're very, very excited about because we're sharing this among the staff is our second grade teachers. Can't wait to get this year's first graders. We're sending a product forward. We're sending children forward who have secured skills that are going to allow us to move faster and deeper and apply more.
NEXT> Dan Sherry: But again, this is at the micro level. It's going to take a little bit more time for that to trickle through on national assessments. And we are map testing

[8162-64] Dan Sherry | Principal, Maple Avenue School | 2016-02-03
PREV> Dan Sherry: sharing this among the staff is our second grade teachers. Can't wait to get this year's first graders. We're sending a product forward. We're sending children forward who have secured skills that are going to allow us to move faster and deeper and apply more.
TEXT> But again, this is at the micro level. It's going to take a little bit more time for that to trickle through on national assessments. And we are map testing or the smarter balance assessment. But I presented the earlier data because again, it is all about the investment that the district has been making in our programs. We're in year two of a brand new math program, and we're starting to get numbers like this. And there's nothing brighter than what the future is going to be for these children as they keep moving through, and we're very excited about that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So I can't tell you how exciting this is. And tonight isn't about public relations. Tonight's not about wow, look at us. Tonight is about measurable progress. We had a

[8162-68] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2016-02-03
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> So at the middle school, we've been working on several different initiatives as well. We've been working on an intervention program that happens every day for 45 minutes, and we've been using a lot of our map data to identify which students need, which skills, and putting them in groups and using very scripted programs in reading and math. And so we've seen some really great improvements for those students.  And also our math scores have increased as a result. So we're seeing students with ten, 15 point gains, which we have not seen before, which is really awesome.  We have a new assistant principal, Kim Eason, at the middle school, and she's been really working  on  our behavior and discipline and all of that and trying to really help improve our climate and culture. So she presented a challenge to the students who will have the fewest discipline referrals. And we've also talked about what are the appropriate expected behaviors and all of that. And our sixth graders, one for the first half of the year, 93% of our sixth graders had no discipline referrals, which is pretty remarkable. They were in a brand new school and they were the winners.
NEXT> Paulette Fitzgerald: Also, we are really focusing on attendance. A lot of the research, of course, shows that if students are in school, then they can learn. It's kind of a no

[8162-69] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2016-02-03
PREV> Paulette Fitzgerald: the appropriate expected behaviors and all of that. And our sixth graders, one for the first half of the year, 93% of our sixth graders had no discipline referrals, which is pretty remarkable. They were in a brand new school and they were the winners.
TEXT> Also, we are really focusing on attendance. A lot of the research, of course, shows that if students are in school, then they can learn. It's kind of a no brainer. So every week we sit down and we meet and we look at who is missing school, and we try to put some interventions in place. Our school social worker might make a home visit and all of that. And as a result, our attendance has really improved overall.  Let's see. Oh, our drama program is up and running as well, and we have a performance slated for May,  and we are sending both our spelling bee and geography bee winners on to the next, the next level, which is really exciting and fun. And we have our finals in front of the entire student body. And so they, you know, they get up there and they're pretty nervous and scared and they do it. But again, it's another way to recognize student achievement. Well thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you very much.

[8162-76] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2016-02-03
PREV> Unidentified: So yes, we.
TEXT> Just received our PSAT scores taken by the juniors, and we were thrilled to find out that based on the mean score, our schools mean score was 1074, which is higher than both the state and the national mean score averages. As you can see, of 1029 and 1009, so significantly higher. And we met 97% met the reading and writing benchmark, 73% met the math benchmark. So  that those are really good and positive indicators for our students. In addition to that, we also have, we just found out that four of our field hockey players were selected to the NFA, see a  Keith Waldman Optimal Performance Associates High School national academic squad. They they have to have achieved a minimum cumulative unweighted GPA of 3.5 out of 4.0. And those students who are receiving that honor are Marion Lovett, Rebecca moody, Hannah Scott, and Samantha Wood. So we're thrilled about that. Also, we are planning this year. We kind of started last year, but with the help of Hannah Putnam, our Vista volunteers working with our school, we're planning and hoping to have it on April 15th, the first annual All Community Service Day at Stephens, which will be a combination of students working both in the building but majority outside the building in the towns of Cornish, Unity and Claremont, working at Saint Gardens, working downtown, painting park benches, raking, cleaning, mulching, you name it.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Different projects so that we're planning on about 400 students being out for at least 4 to 5 hours outside the building that day, and we're looking to do a

[8162-78] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2016-02-03
PREV> Patricia Barry: We'll be taking those donations. And then there's a pattern of about 5 to 6 different pieces that you cut out from these different products. You put it together with a pin and there's one set of shoes, and that then gets sent to Uganda.
TEXT> And the people they are actually so the shoes and bring it to  the, the children. So we're going to do that and then do that outside work so that students will have their 6.5 hours of community service basically handed to them. They're going to be working for it, but we're providing the access to it, and we're hoping to build on that every single year. And we're pretty, pretty excited.
NEXT> Unidentified: About that. Pretty much open before you go.

[8162-83] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-02-03
PREV> Patricia Barry: to 72, again, 58 to 69. So significant growth in a semester's time in math on accu placer and the number of students who passed, only two failed. The rest in the class passed. So pretty proud of that as well. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> So for those of you who are thinking, wait a minute. This is a deliberative session. We're going to talk about the budget. He hasn't talked about budget. Well, actually I have been talking about budget because budget is about students budgeted, about teachers and principals, about the school community, about parents. It's all about also what we do with the funding and what can we say about the results. And with our focus, attention and restructuring, we're starting to be excited. And so I talked about Rock the Red and Claremont rocking. We are going to start the rock, and we're not even close to where we're going to end up with this initiative. And we talk about budget. We talk about priorities. And so what you heard tonight is a result of identifying priorities, maximizing the taxpayers dollars, and being very discreet as to how we use.
NEXT> Unidentified: It, and.

[8162-107] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (self-introduced [37]; moderator refers t | 2016-02-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: whole range of different topics. And I would like to say, and I think those that came on the Saturdays and participated or just sat and listened, that I think we really scoured down through the budget as well as we were able to do.
TEXT> Now I've had the opportunity to do this. This is my eighth budget that I have done. And I would say this year, some of the questions that came from my colleagues on the board were far more detailed, far more challenging than we've had in the past. I think the group in total really took it seriously and tried to come up with a budget that was met the needs of the board and what our objective is, which is to provide the best education that we can for the kids of Claremont, while at the same time being sensitive to the taxpayers. But we also need to remember in here is there are a whole range of of escalators that are included in budgets from one year to the next. We have absorbed I mean, Middleton did make the point that the budget went up by less than 1%. We did absorb in here a 4.5% increase in health care costs. We did include in here increases as it relates to some of the cooperative, I'm sorry, some of the negotiated agreements that we have with our with the different unions that we work with.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So in effect, when you're talking the budget going where it is compared to the contractual increases that are there, we've looked at every way possible to try and minimize

[8162-108] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (self-introduced [37]; moderator refers t | 2016-02-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: did absorb in here a 4.5% increase in health care costs. We did include in here increases as it relates to some of the cooperative, I'm sorry, some of the negotiated agreements that we have with our with the different unions that we work with.
TEXT> So in effect, when you're talking the budget going where it is compared to the contractual increases that are there, we've looked at every way possible to try and minimize the effect on the tax rate while trying to maximize the opportunities available for our children.  And I, for one, am absolutely supportive of the budget that we bring forward  and appreciative of the work that was put in by the administration, the teachers, the building leaders, and my colleagues on the board.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. I would like to speak to the.

[8162-120] Cynthia Howard | Resident, Ward 2 | 2016-02-03
PREV> Cynthia Howard: homes with leaving Claremont. And we we built this huge renovation project here back along two years ago, we proposed it. And since that renovation project, I don't think we have an increase in populace in the school district. In fact, I think it's declining.
TEXT> So we're spending more money and we have less children in the school system. So that money, it's not all about the children, okay? It's about more salaries, more benefits. And in fact, you had an increase in the benefits  for professional development, I believe, for 59,000 roughly. And I don't even think that's a necessity. I think the teachers or whoever the professional development is for should be paying out of their own pocket, not the taxpayers of Claremont. And, the $350,000 less in revenue. I think you should be offsetting that by preparing for the worst, by reducing the budget even more, rather than saying, well, we'll just have a slight increase. And it's not as much as last year, but I think you should prepare for the worst because we don't know what the state's going to do, or even the federal government with Common Core. And I would like to know how much of this budget is costing the taxpayers on federal Common Core offhand, you know.
NEXT> Unidentified: I can speak to that, in terms.

[8162-150] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - name lost in introductions  | 2016-02-03
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Yeah. Happy to speak in favor of that. It the professionals are kind of the unsung heroes of. I think they're, they're, they're on the front lines educating our children. I mean, they are probably one next to the teachers. They're the closest to our students. And, in the past, the things that we haven't adequately compensated them. And so we're not getting, we have some great paraprofessionals, and, and we really need to take care of the great ones that we have, but we also want to attract some of the better ones as well. And the compensation package that we had previously, wasn't necessarily giving us, some of the best professionals that we could have. And we were kind of abusing the really good ones that we did. And so I really think this is a great, the, the agreement that was struck, is really I think. We could have it would have been nice to do more for them. But in, in an effort to be responsible to taxpayers. We kept it. We tried to keep a cap on it.
NEXT> Heather: Thank you. Do we have anyone who would like to speak against the article? Not seeing any hands. Let's move forward to the vote. We had a first and a

[8162-166] West | President, Claremont Association of Paraprofessionals (name as stated, | 2016-02-03
PREV> Unidentified: Just give me your name, please. West.
TEXT> Good evening. My name is West and I am the president of the Claremont Associations of Paraprofessionals. Paraprofessionals play an integral part at oh six. They are dedicated, hard work, hard workers who only want what's best for the children of Claremont Perez. Give direct academic instruction to children and facilitate small academic groups. Paras are the behavioral emotional caregivers, personal care attendants, confidants, diaper changers, potty trainers, and for all students. Pairs represent a consistent and predictable adult in their lives. Claremont, Paris are some of the lowest paid paraprofessionals in the state of New Hampshire. I am currently in my ninth year of service at the SA six, and I'm on step for a step used to equal a year of service, this is how far behind we are. I also take the family health insurance plan and I contribute 50% towards the premium. I currently pay approximately $1,500 a month towards my insurance. The proposed warrant article represents a 3% pay increase. It also includes a 15% district costs health insurance increase. Paris currently contribute 50% to their premiums with. With this increase, Perez would contribute 35% in the district would contribute 65% of the approximately 110 payers. Only 20 receive their health insurance from Saw six.
NEXT> West: We, the Claremont Association of Paraprofessionals, are extremely sensitive to the burden placed on the Claremont taxpayers. We are only asking for what we feel is fair and reasonable. I

[8162-215] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (self-introduced [37]; moderator refers t | 2016-02-03
PREV> Unidentified: I would please.
TEXT> The For those that. Have followed this along, we drew some tremendous work by local representatives, families, administration. ET cetera. Last year we brought this article forward. And a bill was brought forward. Which was subsequently killed at the very late date last year and I believe was killed by the Senate. I'm not exactly certain of the process there, but I know it didn't go forward. One of the most exposed  groups that we have are our children, and I work in the school system in Vermont, and I had a background check done when I started working there. And my background check that comes back to the superintendent's office is everything. It doesn't go through the state police, it doesn't go through any kind of a screen. The whole thing came back to the superintendent's office, and they have the ability to see anything that has taken place. For whatever reason. In New Hampshire, there is a filter put on and the information doesn't actually get back to the superintendent, who's ultimately responsible for making the decision and ensuring the safety of our children. There's no reason that we can come up with why you would want to continue to put in any kind of protections against someone who could potentially do something bad to our kids.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The bill is again out there this year, and I've heard, you know, some information on it, but it's it's still out there and maybe it will go through. Maybe

[8162-216] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (self-introduced [37]; moderator refers t | 2016-02-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: responsible for making the decision and ensuring the safety of our children. There's no reason that we can come up with why you would want to continue to put in any kind of protections against someone who could potentially do something bad to our kids.
TEXT> The bill is again out there this year, and I've heard, you know, some information on it, but it's it's still out there and maybe it will go through. Maybe it will not. But we can't sit here and depend upon the legislature to provide protections for our kids. We're looking into the ability to have a third party group do the background check on our behalf. This is done for other manufacturers and businesses in the area, so that our superintendent has access to all of the information on anyone who's going to be working with the kids within our district, the $20,000 that's been included in here is estimated to be about a cost of $100. To do that background check, and again, to provide the information to the superintendent if the bill goes through and we don't have to go through this, then assuming that the warrant is approved, the $20,000 comes back to the taxpayers. There's no reason to spend it. But if we get get surprised and the bill dies late in the process, we need the ability as a board administration and the people and the voters in Claremont to know we're doing everything necessary to provide for the safety  of our kids from very young, right through our high school years. So I strongly support and recommend a positive vote for this warrant article.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8162-230] John Cloutier | State Representative, Ward 1 resident (ASR 'John. Claudia Ward one'; N | 2016-02-03
PREV> John Cloutier: of congratulations to Senator Boughton because I think we need to encourage our legislators. You know, I don't hesitate if somebody doesn't like something that I sponsor or do, they're going to let me know. But maybe when somebody does, a legislator does something right.
TEXT> It's also good to congratulate them and encourage them. So that's what I would suggest. So make sure we get this bill passed and we don't have a problem in Claremont or any other school district in this state ever again with this issue. And I feel strongly I other one, I'm a rep. I'm also a private security officer. I also happen to be a substitute teacher in this district. And I'll be honest with you, as a private security officer and I guard buildings, I swear the background checks were were more thorough. And maybe it's just my company too, but I think we need to protect our children and needs to be a balance worked out. So hopefully we can get this bill passed in the next few months. But I can't guarantee anything. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather: Again. I ask if there's anyone who would like to speak against anyone who would like to speak for not seeing any hands, I'm going to close discussion. Come back

[8162-238] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member (self-introduced 'Becky Furlan' [32]; ad | 2016-02-03
PREV> Heather: Would you like to speak on the motion?
TEXT> I think it's really important that we have appropriate security of the schools because. We've been trying to make them a safe place for our students. They need to to have these. And I know that what I saw them here earlier tonight. Yeah, Nate's here. And he has done an excellent job of letting us know what it is that needs to be done so that all that all schools are safe. I know a lot of money was spent on the high school, but the elementary schools are just as critical and so as the middle school.
NEXT> Heather: Thank you. Is there anybody who would like to speak against the article? Anyone you'd like to speak for.

[8162-241] John | Claremont School Board member (self-introduced 'John. Naps' [35-36]; s | 2016-02-03
PREV> Unidentified: Over here?
TEXT> Just as a follow up to Mrs. Ferland. Just as a reminder, last year this was out on the ballot, as it were, an article and failed. This is not this is a multiyear step process to get us to a complete security system in all of our buildings. That is similar to what we have at the newly remodeled Stevens High School, where we have cameras on the outside of the buildings monitoring the doors. We have security, security to get into the buildings. This is, again, just a first step, initial phase. Nathan Leavenworth has done a great job of of coming up with a phasing process to bring this into the district at an affordable rate. This is, again, a multiyear investment. And this is the first investment we need to keep this this going. Much like the background checks, much like later tonight, the school board is going to talk about pre-employment drug testing. The safety of our children is the most important thing that we have  to be concerned about as a board member in the safety of our employees, no matter who it is, whether it's a visitor in a school  or a paraprofessional or the principal, we employ them. Their safety is also our responsibility.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.

[8162-267] Heather | Temporary School District Moderator (elected at this session; first na | 2016-02-03
PREV> Unidentified: I against.
TEXT> And it passes. So this is where I get to say one quick thing and then I'll adjourn because I was told first, thank you all for allowing me the opportunity to do this. I really appreciate your patience. I was I was happy to step in for Tom. And I always believe that the moderator should be unbiased. And so I really didn't want to give an opinion one way or another. But I do want to say one thing, and that is the fact that this is only step one in the process. I think we all have to remember that in March, we all have to go to the polls to vote on this. Nothing happens unless we all show up, and it's the most important thing that we do. To get it out to your neighbors, to your friends, to your relatives. And to remember, this is not about you. This is about our community as a whole. It's about whether or not we're going to grow, whether or not our kids are going to stay educated and be able to stay in this city and to grow it, whether they're safe when they go to school.
NEXT> Heather: All of this stuff is is extremely important. And I believe whether or not, you know, you know, we all have budgets. We all struggle to make ends meet. And

[8192-32] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; addressed 'Richard' by the sup | 2016-02-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Up tonight. Okay. I'm not going to say. Somebody else make the.
TEXT> We don't have our student representative here tonight. We'll go to superintendents report.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: For the student. Yeah.

[8192-33] Mary Woodman | School District Clerk and board recording secretary | 2016-02-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: We don't have our student representative here tonight. We'll go to superintendents report.
TEXT> For the student. Yeah.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Oh, sure.

[8192-35] Mary Woodman | School District Clerk and board recording secretary | 2016-02-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Oh, sure.
TEXT> She mentioned the hockey players that was selected to the 2015 and FHCA Keith Wollman Optimal Performance Associates High School national academic squad. And these seniors and juniors have to have an unweighted GPA of 3.5 out of 4.0 per to be for the equivalent of the first quarter of the 21516 school year. For students receiving it, I marry and Lovett, Rebecca moody, Hannah Scott, and Samantha Woodman. How many? And they want to publicly thank the ExxonMobil here on pleasant and Summer Street for the generous donation of $500.  The high school was recipient last year. Their generosity as well. And these funds will be put to good use. The funds last year were used both by the math department and the library. And as  Principal Barry stated. April 15th, Friday before April vacation as Stevens High School Community Service Day, they'll be working with the Vista volunteer, the City of Claremont, along with the towns of Unity and Cornish. And they will be out designing, and they're designing an entire day for all students, ninth through 12th. And you'll be out in the community or in the school working. And Stephen's worked with the local enforcement last week on a lockdown drill. This is the first lockdown drill of the year and we received.  I reviewed our procedures with Claremont PD to ensure that we are as efficient as we can be in the case of an emergency.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: The drill is that success when one outcome being that now five police officers have SHC swiped cars to enter the building in case of emergency, and each patrol car

[8192-38] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-02-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: Thank you. Mary. Superintendents report as a result.
TEXT> Thank you. Good evening. As a result of  what? The structural leaders elementary, middle and high school said tonight.  Celebrating  our students progress and the work of our of our dedicated teachers.  I could not say anything more. So thank you.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We'll open for citizens comments then. Anyone who would like to come forward.

[8192-117] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-02-03
PREV> John: don't understand it. So I understand the whole education system is kind of in this flux about class rank, I think in particular. And they're looking more about the individual student. And if they've challenged itself continually going through school and have strived to improve.
TEXT> Yeah, John, I'm predominantly interested in establishing a protocol where students aren't competing against classmates. So I am never going to accept that we're not going to honor and recognize Academic Atletic Fine Art Department. Right. That that is to be celebrated at all times. But education isn't about education isn't a track race. It it's not a swimming meet.  And so I, I'm just disturbed by what I've learned about what students need to do in order to maintain or be close to understand.
NEXT> John: So only thing I want to know who's going to be on this committee. But there's a lot of things I think we need to look out outside of just

[8192-122] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-02-03
PREV> Cory LeClair: they have been rather dormant this year because of the high school working through their process, they did make some gains around K to eight education and have started the conversation at the high school level of not necessarily being able or wanting to move
TEXT> to a purely competency based educational system, which, if you boil it down, is just simply pass fail.  So looking at hybrid models that work for our community and our students, and so I think that rank certainly would be part of that conversation.  But I think that to your point, Brenda, a larger conversation needs to be had around what are we doing and how does it all fit together?
NEXT> Chris Irish: Just for the sake of what you're asking for in the guidance? Absolutely. I think the conversation should happen. Not tonight. Please. But to the point of the scholarships. I

[8192-123] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board member | 2016-02-03
PREV> Cory LeClair: our community and our students, and so I think that rank certainly would be part of that conversation. But I think that to your point, Brenda, a larger conversation needs to be had around what are we doing and how does it all fit together?
TEXT> Just for the sake of what you're asking for in the guidance? Absolutely. I think the conversation should happen. Not tonight. Please.  But to the point of the scholarships. I think that that needs to be factored in, that whatever we decide to change, I would like to see us start reaching out to the alumni for some of these scholarships, because what's happening over the years is very few kids are getting all of the scholarships, and it's usually the top kids that don't necessarily need the money because they're getting full scholarships. We we saw it last year, a couple of kids. So it's one of those. It is what it is if it's based on that certain thing. But it's so black and white. You've got kids competing and some just say, I'm not going to get that scholarship. My rankings not high enough, why bother? I think we need to just take a look at all that and have a solid conversation of some of these scholarships go way back. Maybe it's time to get them a little more modern that the kids that really need it to get a better shot than the kids that don't necessarily need it because, you know, let's face it, the the higher kids are taking care of, the lower kids are taking care of the middle. Kids tend to be left out in the cold to fend for themselves when it comes to the college money.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So I just think I love the conversation. I think we should definitely have it, but take a real big picture of all of it.

[8192-134] Heather | Public commenter, parent of a Stevens High School student (first name  | 2016-02-03
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> I just want to make one. And I wanted to put it on record so that the committee thinks about this. There is one other thing that you need to think about. Catch the wave.  That is a dual enrollment program,  the possibility of it. And so you have students that are taking college courses now that college course, they may receive a B instead of an A or a C instead of a B. But you're talking about college level not advanced as an in high school, a college level course. How does that affect their GPA? Because if these kids who are taking college level courses and maybe receiving a B at a 17 and 16 year old age, which is amazing at a college level, they need to be granted the the, you know, the credit that they deserve for taking that college level course. Although again, I'm not getting paid by Catch the Wave, but I'm very frustrated to hear that it's not being used that much as currently, and I'm sure you guys are working on that, but that's something else to think about. And again, the levels I can tell you from a personal experience, we were looking at scholarships and and we fell into that little middle area. We weren't top, we weren't bottle, we were middle area. I ended up calling up and saying, where does she actually stand in the standings? The guidance counselor said, where does she need to be?
NEXT> Heather: I said, well, she needs to be here. Call me back a few minutes. Yeah, we can make that work. Are you serious?

[8192-141] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-02-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: it came out in a part of our transcript or something else, to not make those changes till we bring it back here. And we and the community and those that are engaged in this have an opportunity to really think through all the components.
TEXT> I see this same light as making the changes the Stevens High School schedule. And in the in January of 2015,  we had had forums. I mean, this is going to be a transparent and careful process.  And I think it's I never thought of it that way, bridges. But it is a great opportunity to look at big picture many issues,  not just class rank. The only agenda is, to do it right and to benefit our students.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Okay.

[8258-88] Unidentified | Student representative to the board (name not stated on this recording | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: Lindsay, Hannah Scott, Angelica Seaman, Emily Van, Matt Goeben, Anna matthews, Ryan Shadegg, and Anthony Steffen. Rachel Donziger also received a 500 scholarship from the NHS, a d a New Hampshire Athlete Directors Association, for an essay on what high school sports mean to her.
TEXT> The winter athletic season came to a close on Sunday, with the spirit team's appearance in the championship round of the NH double AA Division three Sport Tournament. Every Stevens High School made an appearance in their respective state tournaments in bowling. Doesn't have top 19 other bowlers from New Hampshire and Vermont to win the individual title at the Twin State Classic. Spring sports. At Stevens High School, which is baseball, softball, track and field, unified track and field, lacrosse, and girls tennis, will begin Monday, March 21st.  And then this is from our German teacher  at the high school,  and he is writing to us about the Gap exchange program that is happening starting March 24th in a second. I don't have it actually, so I can just tell you. So we will be having four girls and I think it was ten boys come and they're going to stay here in Claremont for two weeks. They're coming from all different communities in Germany I was be able to partake in as my freshman year. It was an amazing experience. It's Germans coming with an advisor, and they're going to mingle in our student crowd. And all the reports and comments from it has been very positive, and it's shown in our community that it's very great way to tie our local community international one. So that's just something new that's happening. So if you see German kids in the community.
NEXT> Unidentified: Don't be too scared. So that's all I have tonight. Thank you. Thank you.

[8258-90] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (elected 4-3 at this meeting) | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: Don't be too scared. So that's all I have tonight. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Do you have any questions for our student representative? Moving along.
NEXT> Unidentified: Superintendent support.

[8258-92] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: Superintendent support.
TEXT> Thank you and good evening. Congratulations to our new school board members and to our new chair and vice chair. I received an email to start things off from  Mayor Charlene Lovett a few minutes ago. And I'd like to read this on behalf of Charlene Lovett. I would like to congratulate those recently elected to the school board, the City Council, and I look forward to meeting with the Claremont School Board in the near future to discuss topics that affect the community as a whole. And part of your agenda this evening is to some dates, and then those dates would be shared with Mrs. Lovett, and then the council would attempt to dates that work for them, and then we establish a schedule. I'm very pleased to tell you that yesterday  I and Patricia Berry, Charlene Lovett and some residents from Claremont testified in the House Education Committee involving Senate Bill 152.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That is the legislation that would amend the current RSA regarding criminal defense record information checks. Currently, school superintendents in New Hampshire are limited as to accessing certain types of

[8258-94] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: tomorrow. The Senate approved it back in February. So if all goes as planned and we're cautiously optimistic, it goes to the full legislative body next week. That's approximately 400 people. And our hope is that it will be supported and it will be approved.
TEXT> Our hope is and if that occurs, this will become effective July 1st, 2016, and it will allow school superintendents to have access to strictly confidential information. It's not going to be publicly discussed, but it will allow us to have a thorough understanding of who the applicants are, and then that information will be destroyed. Currently, we do not have access to that information and it puts us in a position of being handicapped. I'm also very pleased to tell you I received an email from our induction with mentor director Kim Gogan the other day, and she indicated that, as you know, on April 2nd Saturday, middle school students from Claremont and Newport are going to participate in Stem Fest for grades 6 to 8 students. And there was an email blitz put out seeking donations to assist. And I'm pleased to tell you that Tom, Tom, one of the businesses that saw the email blitz put out by the Chamber of Commerce here in Claremont, provided a donation of $500. So our students from Claremont and Newport Middle School students are on their way and excited as fundraising continues as they prepare for this event. And I'll have more information about that once I see the actual agenda.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I also wish to tell you, Pat Barry, send me an email. Two days ago. And it has to do with the program of studies. And she's recommending a change

[8258-96] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: curriculum, the credit values, etc. has changed. The only thing that's changed is the timing when these classes are offered. And so I just wanted to share with you, and if you'd like to discuss that, perhaps we could do that during the meeting itself.
TEXT> But I think it's it's an example of working with the middle school math faculty, working with the high school math faculty, looking at the program and making adjustments that she feels is in the best interests of the students. And if you could refer to your packet for a minute, because I did want to  in a chronological order, there is some information that I wanted to share with you, and some of it will discuss tonight, but I did at least want to review this with you. After your agenda and the backup information. There was a memo dated June 4th,  2015. Now, when I met with Michelle Pierce and Patrick Adrian and Frank Sprague recently welcoming them to the board, I shared this information with them.  More of an opportunity to have them start to become aware of some of the policies, as well as some of the rules and responsibilities of the school board. And looking at this packet on the first page, it emphasizes that  the reality of school board service can be very different from what new school board members imagined. Board service is a learning experience, one that will stretch and grow their leadership skills. So this is produced by the New Hampshire School Board Association. And as current members will tell you, Patrick, Frank and Michelle, that professional development will be available from New Hampshire School Board Association.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The board and the superintendent form the school district leadership team. The effective functioning of this team requires trust. It does not mean everyone agrees on the issues. The board

[8258-132] Mary Woodman | School District Clerk and board recording secretary | 2016-03-16
PREV> Mary Woodman: professional agreements for paraprofessionals was 518 yes votes and 313 no votes, so the paraprofessionals received their pay rates. Article four was Maintenance and Custodians agreement. There were 531 yes votes, 300 no votes. So the maintenance and custodians will receive the A pay raise.
TEXT> Article five with Secretary's agreements was 483. Yes votes 343 null bolts. The Secretary's only see their pay rates. Article four  expanded background checks except excuse me. Article six expanded back up round checks. Yes 556. No. 274. That has the 20,000 in the budget so that if we need it for expanded background checks was approved.  Article seven security upgrades or 464. Yes.  And 368 nulls, so that the security systems and the schools will be upgraded to more, adequately protect our students and faculty members and the different schools. Article A will be repairs at Maple Avenue School 593. Yes votes 230 no votes. So it looks like Maple Avenue is going to get the right group fixed.  And I will now contribution to building and repairs. Building repairs and maintenance. Expandable trust. 491 votes. Yes votes and 334 nobles. Which means that, if there are funds at the end of the year, $100,000, we hope will be able to put in that,  trust fund so that if we have a major problem come up in the building, we will be able to find it without going back to the taxpayers for extra money. There are 849 total voters for boating.  We had five new registered voters, for which increased our vote in the city to 8446 voters, which gave us a 13% voting public for the election. Everything on the line is passed and have your election results.
NEXT> Unidentified: A motion to.

[8258-136] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (elected 4-3 at this meeting) | 2016-03-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'll second.
TEXT> Any other discussion. All in favor? Opposed? Stevens. Youth, Pi and government. Stevens high youth and government. Delegation request.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Thank you. I'd like to welcome Nancy Lewis, who coauthored this letter with Jill Chastity. They're the social studies teacher and youth and government advisors. Who. And this letter is

[8258-137] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Any other discussion. All in favor? Opposed? Stevens. Youth, Pi and government. Stevens high youth and government. Delegation request.
TEXT> Thank you. I'd like to welcome Nancy Lewis, who coauthored this letter with Jill Chastity. They're the social studies teacher and youth and government advisors. Who. And this letter is is in your packet after the  ballots of March 8th. Welcome, Nancy.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: Vermont. But at this time of year, I also live at Stevens High School, and I have worked with Stevens for 14. This is my 14th year, and before I

[8258-138] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher and Youth and Government ad | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Thank you. I'd like to welcome Nancy Lewis, who coauthored this letter with Jill Chastity. They're the social studies teacher and youth and government advisors. Who. And this letter is is in your packet after the ballots of March 8th. Welcome, Nancy.
TEXT> Vermont. But at this time of year, I also live at Stevens High School,  and I have worked with Stevens for 14. This is my 14th year, and before I worked there for as long as I know, Stevens High School students have been going to Concord at this time of year to participate in a practicing, the, the the process of being an active citizen through the YMCA Youth and Government program. YMCA Youth and Government program is at least 75 years old in the state of New Hampshire. It's a national program,  and it's rather unique because in every state they model their youth and government program around the way the state legislature is structured. And since you and New Hampshire have such an unusual government structure, it's particularly wonderful for our students because there's so many representatives. This year we have we did have a nominee for speaker of the House, Stefan Lord. Unfortunately, these kids have busy lives and he can't go for the election, which happens on Saturday, because he's also in the senior play. And he had to pick and choose and decided that he the production was more important than becoming speaker of the House. We've had governors from from Claremont, we've had us Supreme Court justices,  we've had chairs of many committees, lobbyists, writers, including the editor in chief last year, kids really enjoy it. And actually, I'd like Marion to speak on this because Marion is part of our delegation.
NEXT> Marion: Yeah. So that year was my first year in youth in government and being able to go somewhere and just experiment or experience a moment of being with all these

[8258-139] Marion | Stevens High School student, Youth and Government delegate (first name | 2016-03-16
PREV> Nancy Lewis: governors from from Claremont, we've had us Supreme Court justices, we've had chairs of many committees, lobbyists, writers, including the editor in chief last year, kids really enjoy it. And actually, I'd like Marion to speak on this because Marion is part of our delegation.
TEXT> Yeah. So that year was my first year in youth in government and being able to go somewhere and just experiment or experience a  moment of being with all these other kids and being able to be part of a  government that my mom was once a part of. So being able to see what it was like to truly be a representative and truly be able to create your own bill and try to make an impact on your state was a lot of fun. So I can't wait for this year's. So yeah.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: Thank you. So what I'm here to do is to request that I be allowed to take the Jill. I be allowed to take a delegation of ten Stevens High

[8258-140] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher and Youth and Government ad | 2016-03-16
PREV> Marion: being able to see what it was like to truly be a representative and truly be able to create your own bill and try to make an impact on your state was a lot of fun. So I can't wait for this year's. So yeah.
TEXT> Thank you. So what I'm here to do is to request that I be allowed to take the Jill. I be allowed to take a delegation of ten Stevens High School students to Concord.  We go on Saturday for the pre legislation, which is where students learn the process, and practice the process. It's also the election of the governor and the speaker of the House. And then on August 8th and ninth this year, we will go down with your permission and spend all day Friday and all day Saturday  I have participating. They spend the night at a Comfort Inn. It is heavily monitored, thank goodness, by the youth, the government, YMCA, people. They stay up all night long to make sure everyone is tucked quietly in their beds. And I am too, so that I can sleep as well. But it's a wonderful program and I do hope you continue to support it. Any questions? Yes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's a great idea. There's only one thing I don't like in this letter, and that's that you and Jill are going to be incurring the expenses on your own.

[8258-157] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Early education programs.
TEXT> Good evening. I prepared a PowerPoint. A copy of that is in your packet. I also have copies for the audience that I'd be very glad to distribute after this presentation. But tonight's presentation  is being made because the board requested some additional information from a meeting we had two weeks ago. And so tonight we're going to be talking about full day kindergarten, which is in place this year. The first year is ever going to be talking about the future, the future of the Claremont School District under early  education programs. Early education programs is not a new conversation for the Claremont School District, and definitely is not a new conversation for the school board. The most important responsibility of any school board is to work with their community to improve student achievement. Of all the things that  I passed out to, all of the policies and the different multicolored sheets from the New Hampshire School Board Association, the key is student achievement. That really is the target. And in 20 1314, almost three years ago, there was discussion is it feasible to establish full day kindergarten? And is it feasible to establish an early childhood education program for all children, all children who live in Claremont?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And a feasibility study basically is an opportunity for adults to sit down. Hopefully a cross-section of representatives and to discuss is it feasible? And in the case of feasibility

[8258-158] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: achievement. That really is the target. And in 20 1314, almost three years ago, there was discussion is it feasible to establish full day kindergarten? And is it feasible to establish an early childhood education program for all children, all children who live in Claremont?
TEXT> And a feasibility study basically is an opportunity for adults to sit down. Hopefully a cross-section of representatives and to discuss is it feasible? And in the case of feasibility studies, two were formed, two committees were formed, full day kindergarten and early childhood education. And these committees ran parallel to each other for for several months. The Early Childhood Education Committee, feasibility study committee, as you say, had Guy as a member had different representatives. But we realized because of the challenges of establishing an early childhood program at that time versus a full day kindergarten program. And we didn't say one is more important than the other. We took our energies and focus on full day kindergarten at that time. And there were several members of the community who participated  in that committee in the spring and  in the fall and then into the early part of 2015, when full day kindergarten was approved and implemented. What this full day kindergarten feasibility study committee realized is that Claremont was lagging behind more than three quarters of the country five years ago had full day kindergarten. We also realized that full day kindergarten would help us to begin addressing many of the challenges that exist in our community,  as measured by our students and and their skill set, many of them coming into the kindergarten half day kindergarten at that time and then first grade with several challenges.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And number four is important to note, because I'm going to talk a little bit later about federal law. And in fact, the school district is responsible to educate children

[8258-159] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: would help us to begin addressing many of the challenges that exist in our community, as measured by our students and and their skill set, many of them coming into the kindergarten half day kindergarten at that time and then first grade with several challenges.
TEXT> And number four is important to note, because I'm going to talk a little bit later about federal law. And in fact, the school district is responsible to educate children long before they enter kindergarten if they are identified, which will mention in a minute. Our district has had some challenging expenses. Notice the special education percentage of the budget in comparison to the state. This is the fiscal year 13 and look at the amount of funding put into our district. Regular education versus the state. This isn't by a coincidence or choice. It represented the of the needs of our students in fiscal year 13, and is troubling that our special education case  costs are so high. It's not the fault of the children. In fact, fiscal year 14, 24% of our students were identified as having special needs and 26% more in the quarter of the budget  was slotted for special education, and only 20% of that amount was reimbursed by the state. So it's a very hefty package, and Claremont special education budget is 4% higher in fiscal year 14 than any other district in the region.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So full day kindergarten, what the research showed, and this is what really started to make us say that we've got to find a way to implement this. An eight

[8258-161] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: measures where a student is, but more importantly, it predicts based on where they are in their age and what they're able to do, what the likeliness of them have being successful as readers, or the likeliness of them having challenges with reading and reading.
TEXT> We know how important that is. And a child who is handicapped with reading has horrific barriers to progress. 44% of our half day kindergarten students at the end of the year scored below or well below where they should have been. And in 2015, we implemented full day kindergarten, eight full day kindergarten classes in our district. And next month you're going to be hearing a report from the full day kindergarten teachers. They were planning to be here tonight. They asked for more time to prepare a few more information. So in the first meeting in April, they will be here and they will make a presentation, but it'll be interesting to see. However, comparing April 2014 half day kindergarten, 44% of the children were below or well below the benchmark with. It'll be interesting to see now where our students are in full day kindergarten. Two days. Excuse me. Two years later. Full day kindergarten. Early learning. It's a tremendous investment, as measured by providing students with an opportunity to have a great start in their public education. I'm going to turn the meeting and slide presentation over to Corey, because we want to give you a, a, a glimpse and only a little glimpse of some of the work you, as a board will be doing with strategic action planning or strategic planning.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I talked with the New Hampshire School Board Association representative today. We are meeting with a consultant. In two weeks. We're going to discuss some things, and then we're going

[8258-163] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: today. We are meeting with a consultant. In two weeks. We're going to discuss some things, and then we're going to make a presentation to you as a board to have you weigh in with your interest in developing with us a multi-year strategic plan.
TEXT> Good evening. So I mentioned at a recent board meeting, when we presented on curriculum updates, that strategic plan would be forthcoming. So this is, I guess, maybe part one of a multi-part series around a strategic action plan. I've been officially in my position less than a year, and, this is my sixth year in the Claremont School District system, and I don't believe we've had an articulated, multi-year strategic action plan in the time that I've been here. And so when we're talking about making financial decisions at the board level, policy decisions at the board level, is helpful to have an idea of where we're headed so we can backward design and make sure that we're making the right incremental steps along the way to get there. So we are heavily working and engage in the process to identify a strategic action plan. And to date, we've identified three priority areas that will be all encompassing for all of our students and staff in, not only the Claremont School District, but across South Six. So those strategic areas, those priority areas, if you will, are early learning, personalization and engagement. And tonight, because of the topic of doctor McGowan's presentation, my, my focus is on the early learning piece.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: If it's not said later, I'll be surprised. But all of us should know by now that the return on investment for every dollar spent on early learning is $2

[8258-169] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: who have disabilities, and they need much more intervention and early intervention than a child that does not have a disability. So the idea was created to ensure children with disabilities have the opportunity to receive free and appropriate public education, like all other children.
TEXT> And the idea includes what's called the child find mandate. And that basically means every state in our nation has to has developed a way of children and providing services to children ages three and four before they're eligible for public schools, assuming the community has kindergarten, which are children, are needed to receive special education as well as other related services, and which children are not,  and shall find the state of New Hampshire. Ed 1105. It ensures that all children who have disabilities, beginning in age two and a half, as early as two and a half  through age 21, who reside in their state do receive special education related services. They need to be identified. We need to where they are located and evaluate it and then services provided. It's not an option if a child is identified working with the special education department, working with other agencies, parents, bringing their child to a pediatrician, pediatrician does some preliminary work, says, you know, I would recommend that you have your child evaluated all. And this is publicized, by the way, quite a bit. So parents of infants are aware to your child advantage to be assessed to determine if, in fact, it would be appropriate to have them evaluated if, in fact, they are in need of additional services. This child find is critical. Locating children long before they would enter public schools. And the second part of this is important.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: School districts are required to have a formal child. Child find policies and procedures to locate, identify, evaluate all children suspected. And what's also important is that this is not

[8258-171] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: with disabilities must be in the least restrictive environment. And an example of least restricted environment is when they are with other children who are not disabled, who do not have a learning disability. And so there is some modeling, so there's some social interaction.
TEXT> They should have access to the general education or any other program that non-disabled peers can access. That really is a remarkable law, a challenging law, but a remarkable law,  because the child who was born with a disability needs to have additional support and if not that child's fault, and they need that type of support and obligation to provide it, it's not a nice thing to do. It's a requirement of the federal law. And they need to be accessible to non-disabled tears. The least restrictive environment and the concern we have with the number of children  who are ages three and four, and the fact that we have not been able to comply with Ida, ID has evolved over several months to tonight's recommendation. Because currently, if we continue to do business the way we're doing, we cannot. We don't have the capacity. We don't have the room to provide children ages three and four, who are identified with the appropriate special education services or related services. So we don't have the room, but they are entitled. So we would have to locate other agencies or other organizations and pay them to provide related services and special education services to claim our children if we do business the way we're doing it now.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So that's why it's important that we take a look at how we do business. And we we start to work closely with the Department of Ed. We met with

[8258-173] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: not identified Claremont children ages three and four. And what I'm going to show you is a model that we believe could be put in place. It may not look exactly like this in the fall of 2016, but this is what the model is.
TEXT> This is an example. We would have childhood education programs for identified  for and non-identical children. So here we have a child who's identified and with children who are not identified. And we would have three classes in the morning, a maximum of 15  for our children who are also but whose needs are quite severe, and to the point where we need to have much more intensive intervention. This would not be a mixture with the Or excuse me, a mixture would not identify. So utilizing the current services current space  for the very much beloved early childhood education program that's been here for 20 plus years.  The fact is that now this model taking our pre-K program that is in the Maple Avenue Elementary School, transferring it to the current facility, and over the summer, retrofitting that. So we would have children who live in Claremont and a large number of children. And if you look at this, we're talking over a potential of 100 children potential. I say this is an example because I don't want anyone to think in the fall of 2016. This is going to be in place, but this is where we are going. And it's been blessed by the Doe. And what's most important, it'll put us in compliance with the federal law. Because right now, if a parent of a child who's identified says you are not following ID, their correct and there's not negotiable.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Now let's talk just for a minute. This process is not a new process. When we've developed the school budget, we just don't put numbers together. We examine all our

[8258-174] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: are going. And it's been blessed by the Doe. And what's most important, it'll put us in compliance with the federal law. Because right now, if a parent of a child who's identified says you are not following ID, their correct and there's not negotiable.
TEXT> Now let's talk just for a minute. This process is not a new process. When we've developed the school budget, we just don't put numbers together. We examine all our programs. We how we're using the taxpayers dollars. Are we meeting the needs of our students, of our children, and we make adjustments? For those of you on the board, for those of you who are new to the board, you're going to experience this. It's not just numbers. It's about the impact of the use of the taxpayers dollars as measured by student achievement.  And in fact, in the fall of 2015, we had some considerations. And the current board members who were board members  in the prior few months, we talked about collective bargaining, fixed cost increases, program curriculum changes, capital improvement. Well, the Warren article certainly will help us with that. School school security Assessment and career technical study, which I'll explain in a minute. And also the Youth Risk Behavior Survey study group that's in place now. So  where we are now and where we want to go isn't by coincidence.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: This study was created to assist the Newport School District and the Claremont School District to answer some questions. How aligned our current program to study with projected high skill,

[8258-175] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: help us with that. School school security Assessment and career technical study, which I'll explain in a minute. And also the Youth Risk Behavior Survey study group that's in place now. So where we are now and where we want to go isn't by coincidence.
TEXT> This study was created to assist the Newport School District and the Claremont School District to answer some questions. How aligned our current program to study with projected high skill, high wage job needs in the next decade for the region and state workforce?  We're talking about this tech center, Newport or Claremont. We're talking about our high school students. We're talking about providing them opportunities to prepare them for a future vocation may be additional, additional training might even be college. But the point is this program was created for high school students. Newport. Claremont, I believe at one time it was even for our student placed in career clustered of pathways that align with their career goals and the community workforce needs. What is a need? What are the employment opportunities after high school? Their experiences in the tech center should be an asset for that future. Now. On April  August 13th, 2015, there was a meeting in the Newport High School and it was a meeting between the Newport School Board and the Claremont School Board, and it was more of an introduction to what we were going to have as far as a review of our programs and our particular campuses. And to answer the question, are we meeting the needs of our students? Let's see if I can.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: At that meeting, we had some residents who had heard that the tech center was going to change the fact that really childhood program was going to close. And so

[8258-176] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Board, and it was more of an introduction to what we were going to have as far as a review of our programs and our particular campuses. And to answer the question, are we meeting the needs of our students? Let's see if I can.
TEXT> At that meeting, we had some residents who had heard that the tech center was going to change the fact that really childhood program was going to close. And so WNC spoke to me about that, and I'd like you to hear what I said in response. Let me try this one more time, if I can. It should have some sound. The outcome will be discussed publicly. There will be recommendations that will be discussed publicly, and then school boards will make some decisions for the future. The programs that exist in Newport and Claremont for the 2015 2016 school year remain intact. The future will be dependent upon what the outcome of the review process is, and the review process is basically about are we meeting the needs of our students as measured by preparing them for their future after school? That's the process to assume or speculate that programs will close. Is inaccurate okay. Would there be change? Yes. Will there be change? I don't know, could a program be discontinued? Yes. Will the program be discontinued? I don't know, but I'd rather ask a question  while we meeting the needs of our students  versus not asked a question for fear of ripples from those who have probably changed.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And I'm not trying to be disrespectful. I'm just saying that this districts are created to educate children and we need to constantly ask ourselves, are what we are doing

[8258-177] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: don't know, could a program be discontinued? Yes. Will the program be discontinued? I don't know, but I'd rather ask a question while we meeting the needs of our students versus not asked a question for fear of ripples from those who have probably changed.
TEXT> And I'm not trying to be disrespectful. I'm just saying that this districts are created to educate children and we need to constantly ask ourselves, are what we are doing in the best interests of students? That's what this is about. And w audio, because there was some angst, there was some concerns. I don't know where the parents got the idea that we're going to close programs. I didn't say it, but we got out, we're going to close. And that was not the intent. Now, as the process goes on, this is the current student, Stevens High School student enrollment going from 2007 to 8 to 20 1516. These are the number of high school students in four programs. Because of the low enrollment and because the teacher retired at Stevens High School, there were two courses that were added to the curriculum. One was a literacy child literacy course and one was a child development development. Perry. Now you'll notice that 20 1516, there were no programs  that because the former director resigned in late June of 2015, I did talk to all of the tech center teachers, gave them a memo.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I shared that with the board about this review. Cindy Gallagher did the same, but the that's why we have nothing there but take away the two high school courses,

[8258-181] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: Out those.
TEXT> PowerPoint there right under the folder to the audience. Because you're looking at two things. One is an example of a high school plan of study for students interested in teacher education. The state of New Hampshire is going to have a teacher shortage. We have 17 teachers next year retiring in Claremont alone.
NEXT> Unidentified: Citizens.

[8258-184] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: have a lot of work to do in our CTE center. And I'm not pointing my finger at anyone. I'm not I'm not pointing my finger at the director. I'm not pointing my finger at our teacher teachers. Because there are dedicated group of professionals.
TEXT> We need to take a step back and do some recalibration and where necessary, make some adjustments or where necessary, expand what we're currently doing. But the access of our students, Newport and Claremont, to this program, to this facility must increase, it must increase. And it's high school plan of study for students interested in teacher education is one start of that. My tech.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Corey's gotten to meet.

[8258-186] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Corey's gotten to meet.
TEXT> I assure you says a lot  talked about CTE. It talks about our students and where we need to go.  And so I apologize for the technical difficulties, which are my difficulties. That's why we have talented assistant superintendents.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Duplicate the screen. Corey, should we I think it's function F7.

[8258-191] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: A slideshow right.
TEXT> Now I am not at all insensitive to what this recommendation means. I'm not at all insensitive. I know that there is a program here that's been here for several years, and I'm not being disrespectful of them, but my job is to go through a process. And this process started three years ago. This facility has such potential. You saw this video clip. That's just a piece of it. We need to increase the access of this facility to our high school students. We need to take a hard look at our programs. We need to support those that are preparing children, young adults for the future and do some retooling for it's not. Change is inevitable, but that doesn't mean someone has to like it. And for that I apologize. I'm not saying what some folks want to hear and that I regret.  My objective is to talk about the needs of the Claremont students, the needs of this tech center, and the potential for going forward, especially with the federal law or children and  early access to these children, and also expanding the use of this facility, and also implementing a program that will be a career with a livable wage.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: You know, there's been a lot of things written about change. Change is difficult, but my recommendation is based on three years of work supported by the Department of we're

[8258-192] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: of this tech center, and the potential for going forward, especially with the federal law or children and early access to these children, and also expanding the use of this facility, and also implementing a program that will be a career with a livable wage.
TEXT> You know, there's been a lot of things written about change. Change is difficult, but my recommendation is based on three years of work supported by the Department of we're ready to go. We need to go. We need to be in compliance with Ida, and we need to retrofit to prepare this facility to meet the needs of all students. And there's no reason why one day, Claremont can't be one of those communities that talks about the high graduation rate and also the rate going to college.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you.

[8258-198] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: say, you know, you can make an argument either way. All I know is I'm not talking about the early childhood education program. I'm talking about providing programs in this CTE center that preparing students for future college or future vocation with a livable wage.
TEXT> In the. You know, I'm not sure if you've watched prior presentations, but in the perfect world, I would have universal preschool age three and four for every child in this community if I was a multi-millionaire or I had a benefactor. So it's not about that. But we can't do that yet. But what we must do, in my view, is to retrofit our programs to meet the needs of our high school students. And by the way, this teacher program is not going to be housed in this facility. The identified and not identified children next fall will be part of the lab, but the teacher prep high school students would also have lab experiences in the elementary schools in the middle school. So don't think that the model is going to be here. This will be a lab experience.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[8258-201] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (sworn in at this meeting, three-year te | 2016-03-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: child pre preschool, early child on education teachers. And there's an incredible national demand for absolutely. This is something that needs to change. The fact of the matter is these do need to be high wage jobs. I mean I honestly I need a teacher.
TEXT> I can't if I'm if I'm supposed to be recommending teaching based on living wage, I don't know if we could do that, do that. Because the reality of the kind of the pay does not necessarily reflect the, the, the societal demands. And I guess so. This isn't a criticism on our district, but this is kind of a challenge that we need to be looking at. If we're focusing so much on one side of it. The reality is the early childhood education program. I think their students need to be learning this because this whether our societies figure out how we are going to make it a sustainable. The fact of the matter is, is there is so much need to have more preschools.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's why I'm proud about the recommendation to have almost over 100 children. If the model is fully maximized of Claremont children accessing, they have to have. Right now the

[8258-216] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-03-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Little kids or students who are getting educated to be for the career path.
TEXT> No, no, I'm talking just about the kids. The kids that are that are being watched. Okay. Yeah. So to be clear then, so at Maple Ave then that that that particular, model meets the I'd a standard. Is that correct. Does not it.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Doesn't because it doesn't have the other students that.

[8258-220] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: It's mostly illegal.
TEXT> Now if we were to mix those children with the children we have here, would that then meet the ID requirements of having the two the what is that the least restrictive environment fit or is there is there a reason that they've been kept separate, or is it I'm just looking for 4x4 because I, I see where we want to go. But I also recognize that we've got,  65 kids that, that this is, you know, this is life for them. I mean, next year, I'm sure it's going to change a little bit, but is there a way that we can get there, retain our current enrollment, and then kind of expand to this, this program that this ideal program that you've identified here is, you know, because it seems to me if we have three classes of 15 and a and a class of 12, that's just an Am that covers the numbers we have now. But I mean, I'm just curious, is this possible to do with the numbers we have working in that direction so that we're not leaving them out in the cold?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I wouldn't say it's impossible. I think something that needs to be considered is, I'm guessing, and I, Sam and Emily can correct me. I'm guessing of those 27 children,

[8258-228] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: Oh gosh, I think it was. I might have notes from that meeting.
TEXT> My recall is that we're looking at we've identified 12 children for next year, new children. According to Chris Bezos. That number is changing, however, working with Head Start and others. So but right now it's 12. In addition to but some of the children in the pre-K program at Maple would phase out, would it be a perfect match? I don't know, but the one unknown and concern is that the numbers are increasing.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I can tell you exactly here in a second.

[8258-230] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-03-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: I can tell you exactly here in a second.
TEXT> And then of the the childcare that's happening here, is that are are the families paying tuition on that on and is that for every child that that comes to that.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Every child that's currently in the all 27 are currently paying tuition.

[8258-252] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (elected at this meeting) | 2016-03-16
PREV> Sam: those, because what Jason is going to say is going to make a lot more sense after looking at these numbers, because even if we're not full, we're not costing anything right now. The thing that costs the taxpayers money is the CTE instructor. Yes.
TEXT> That's kind of my point where I'm going to kind of try to get the board focused and maybe save us some time, I don't know, but there's no I don't think anybody has an argument for the need for the for the daycare center, for lack of a description, the justification for what we're trying to do for as many kids as we can help. But what you just said, it's usually important this conversation started and still is, a CTE program. I'm challenging the board to decide what our priority is here. I'm I'm a CTE guy. I've been saying it since I stepped on this board. This program is supposed to be a teaching program for our tax center. We're starting from the back saying, no, we have a daycare center. How can we make the daycare center bigger? Oh, we're focusing on the daycare center. We only have four kids that are signed up to even take the health care program. So we are going to continue to have a teaching program with no kids in it being taught. And again, I'm not challenging the need for this, the daycare and the kids and the fear of losing your daycare.
NEXT> Chris Irish: But we have got to get in our silo. Our job as school board members is to educate our high school students at this tech center. We have to we

[8258-253] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (elected at this meeting) | 2016-03-16
PREV> Chris Irish: even take the health care program. So we are going to continue to have a teaching program with no kids in it being taught. And again, I'm not challenging the need for this, the daycare and the kids and the fear of losing your daycare.
TEXT> But we have got to get in our silo. Our job as school board members is to educate our high school students at this tech center. We have to we have to separate ourselves from saying, well, we've got all these kids in daycare. That should be about our priority. Above all else, we can't stop the daycare center. Well, this is why our tech center is dying, and this is why this program is where it is. This is a CTE program, so to say we're making money because we don't have a CTE teacher. It's kind of counterintuitive. And again, we can stay here all night. And I appreciate everybody who's going to stand up and say save the daycare center. We had the same conversation 5 or 6 years ago. And that is the issue. Cut to the chase. Do we want to teaching program or do we want a daycare center because we don't have the kids that are signed up to have both. And I think going forward as a school board, we've got to decide what the priority is here. And this tech center has got to get back to being a tech center, not a daycare center without a tech ed teacher.
NEXT> Chris Irish: This is a CTE program first and foremost. I can't stress that enough. We need to get start with this as a CTE program and then see what it evolves

[8258-265] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (sworn in at this meeting, three-year te | 2016-03-16
PREV> Sam: Yeah.
TEXT> So if we were to have the CET program and we had the program that you're running with, the, with the idea that, that the potential to go back out into our community and make 3444 open a daycare in town, I see that. But to watch someone work terribly hard for $25,000 with with the possibility of never having a raise. So are we are we are we again, having a CT program that's going to move our children forward and give them the benefit of having a education where they go out and they can make the income that's going to support that family, whether it's one or not. Can you support a family?
NEXT> Sam: I'm doing it. I just had a baby. I have a four year old. I can tell you that that's where I chose to personally stop because I did choose

[8258-276] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (elected at this meeting) | 2016-03-16
PREV> Brent Ferland: But we have to we have to hire them anyway to meet the needs of the of the. We're going to pay that whether we want to or not. Why not? Well.
TEXT> There's a difference between paying $100,000 for a couple of teachers total for all of these kids, versus you're not going to we're not going to hire teachers for only for students that have signed up. That's my point.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: If you have to hire, you're going to have to hire those teachers to to handle the IDE, pre-K program. You have to have somebody for that. Why couldn't we

[8258-277] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-03-16
PREV> Chris Irish: There's a difference between paying $100,000 for a couple of teachers total for all of these kids, versus you're not going to we're not going to hire teachers for only for students that have signed up. That's my point.
TEXT> If you have to hire, you're going to have to hire those teachers to to handle the IDE, pre-K program. You have to have somebody  for that. Why couldn't we add that to our child care center and kind of let it do dual duty, take it off of the seat? I don't I don't see like I said, I tend to I agree with you 100%. That's not really where we want to be with it.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm just.

[8258-279] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: I'm just.
TEXT> Going to just clarify, I think mathematically, Brant, that works. The problem is that if you if  to follow that model, we would have to have the children who were identified. And those teachers separate from the children who are going to be under the wings or supervision of our current staff at the Early Childhood Education Center, those, those dedicated staff.
NEXT> Unidentified: Do.

[8258-286] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: It is.
TEXT> There's a little a little bit more to that. And I know Jason's waiting to speak, but the  little bit more that was brought to light in the conversation with the  folks from, the Department of Education, which was new learning for me. So I'm trying to accurately repeat what I learned, or what I heard is that,  many of our identified three and four year olds who where we are required to provide services for  based on idea legislation,  do not have the need as determined by their special education team  to attend full day or, to attend all five days. And so where it has yet another layer of sticking point is if you have an identified student, for instance, who there I their individualized education plan says they need to attend three mornings a week, and they need para support to be successful those three mornings a week. You are now thinking about it budgetary, monetarily paying for the teacher to teach them those three mornings a week in a class. So they're teaching many kids, but you're also paying for that pair of support three mornings a week. Now, if you have a program where you are offering a full day option, which is, and honesty, what I would need if I were seeking care for my child because I work full time, and I wanted my child to be in a full day option five days a week.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: You would have to provide that opportunity for those identified children as well. And so now another level of sticking point comes in, because now who's responsible for paying for

[8258-357] Jason Tatum |  | 2016-03-16
PREV> Brent Ferland: So if it went private you don't need the special ed.
TEXT> No matter what. Let's just say the number of the students at Maple, whatever it is, 50, 60, whatever it would be next year stays whatever it is. And  the or five of those kids come here for a part of their day. Whatever it is, it's not going to. The number of special ed students being case managed isn't going to change.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: Well, I.

[8258-371] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (elected at this meeting) | 2016-03-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: We have we we.
TEXT> Have to change. There's an opinion there. There's an opinion there. There's an opinion there. I'm not qualified to break that tie. And I'm not even going to try to say who's right and who's wrong, because there's enough confusion is the right word. There's a lot of layers and a lot of moving parts to this. And the ones that are going to pay the most are our kids. But I clearly think we are right back to where we started from is at some point we've got to stop and make a decision and and move forward in some kind of change in my frustration is I'm not I don't want to push this down the road to deal with it a year from now, I just don't I think that's a that's an inexcusable thing for us to do. And if we do nothing, I'm going to get back to my tunnel vision where I'm comfortable right now. If we do nothing for a year, that's just one more year for this tech center to die. And I'm not going to allow that. I'm not going to sit here and prop up a nonproductive tech ed program for a year just because we're afraid to make a decision.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And with all due respect to everybody, myself included, this is a lose lose situation. We're going to make a decision that's going to hurt somebody. We're either going to

[8258-429] Joel Snide | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (ASR 'Joel Snid | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: So what's the answer?
TEXT> So the answer is the state said you cannot. I'm sorry. Morse. Today the state said you cannot push out a CTE program in order to put something else in. They just came out with some new guidelines last year, which permits  district programs to run in a center, so long as it doesn't displace a C to E program. So the proposal is legal according to the new state guidelines. I just want to bring up one thing about the enrollment and this was childhoods. Time to talk, not mine. But I just want to point out one thing about the early childhood program. If you looked at the graph, there was a precipitous drop one year, and that drop in early childhood came about when Michelle went from a double block where kids experienced level one and level 2 in 1 year because they were in class with two blocks at a time. So therefore there were no level two students to come back the following year. And that's why the number exists certainly there. As Mr. Irish said, there's issues with electives and enrolling students. It's not like English nine everybody takes English nine. There's no question about that. Okay. But that drop existed for that one year as we saw that same drop in culinary arts we have in culinary arts.
NEXT> Joel Snide: This year we have four students in level two, because when we went from a double block of single block, we had no level two students to take to take

[8258-439] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-03-16
PREV> Joel Snide: Just by the way, I would have spoken sooner. I think this is really childhood's evening, not mine.
TEXT> Can I just say, I think what Mr. Tatum is presented with his motion kind of represents everybody that currently has the children in rolled. And I think that motion gives us an out because it says that we're going to close the the program next year and we can make that. We set a date if we want. I think we should do do that, because if I'm looking at the strategic action plan as it sits, 20 1617, we're just going to a location for existing programs. So we've identified the locations, we've cut that out, and then we can move to 20 1718 where we actually move things. I really think we've been given an answer in the proposed motion that it gets rid of this program and this headache goes away next year, but it also takes care of the need it keeps. Those currently in the program are on board with it, obviously, so we can kind of keep them happy. It's it gets rid of the program. It gets rid of the program, frees up the space here. It doesn't really set our strategic action plan back too far and it moves us forward. It doesn't address a lot of the other things that we need to look at, but I think it gets us out of this quagmire of the daycare, and it gives us a path forward that I think would be acceptable by all.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: But that's just and being late like it is. I was just thinking, you know, let's just vote on it and get it done.

[8258-442] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (elected at this meeting) | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: Well.
TEXT> I hear where you're coming from, but. And I'm going to sound like a cold hearted jerk, but it is the way I wasn't elected to to make decisions based on making them happy. My point is, I have a responsibility and I think very seriously as a school board member and we have a we're basically if we met, passed that motion, we basically say, hey, great job guys. We test you to do something. Have a nice day. Come back next year. We'll talk about it again. I think that we're shirking our responsibility. To me, the priority is the children attending our schools. Not everybody who's I mean everybody said it. If I still had kids, I would want to have my kid close. Everybody in this city who has children under the age of four wants their kids close. You guys are lucky enough to have that. Everybody in the in the city that has kids would trade places in a heartbeat to have that, but they don't have the luxury of coming to the school board saying, protect my daycare. They don't have anybody. So I totally get where you're coming from. But that's what this is about, protecting the daycare. I respect the motion. I get what you're saying, but that is not my task as a school board member.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: My my feeling on is that there was a line the budget did have it in here for this. And there is I understand there's discretion of the superintendent has

[8258-443] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-03-16
PREV> Chris Irish: saying, protect my daycare. They don't have anybody. So I totally get where you're coming from. But that's what this is about, protecting the daycare. I respect the motion. I get what you're saying, but that is not my task as a school board member.
TEXT> My my feeling on is that there was a line the budget did have it in here for this. And there is I understand there's discretion of the superintendent has discretion to spend it how he sees the need.  But I think there would be some,  you know, I think it adds some, credibility to the budgetary process. If we try to spend the money as, as we say, we're going to allocate it. Not that needs don't arise. I also understand if there was something that absolutely had to take that space that was detrimental or that was that was going in there, right now, we don't even really know what's going in there, except we want to move the kids over from Maple left, which there is. It's working currently there. What's what's another what's another year going to do  except.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Well, may I.

[8258-455] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: Do that.
TEXT> We have we have the children to. So do we have the enrollment currently to make that happen?
NEXT> Unidentified: Michelle.

[8258-458] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (sworn in at this meeting, three-year te | 2016-03-16
PREV> Michelle Pierce: that path, career can come in there. Although I, I hear it being for people being interested, I hear that that the the program has become a wonderful, centered thing that every parent is happy and proud of and the people that have created it.
TEXT> However, it's not it's, it's, it's a, it's a business that's been created. They're asking to go private. So we're talking about a school teaching where where you come in as a trade to learn to do this. And the children coming. There is a bonus. Those children coming. There is the children they use to teach with. Correct? Yes. So now you've created a beautiful daycare with great possibilities and wonderful things, and yet it's not following through here. It needs to go here. You do need to go private. I agree with you 100%. I think that's wonderful if you can and I would support that 100%. However, I don't think it's fair to ask us to stay here for another year either. Let's look at a compromise for everybody and give me the time to go back and look so that I can make an informed decision, or I'm not doing anything for you either.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Michelle. Michelle, I just wanted to correct you want to have a new. They didn't create this program. This is a school program that was just like a math class.

[8258-467] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: Well.
TEXT> If I if I may, Brian, you know, school board members, you you pay me, you pay Corey and others and we and we we  know I knew very when you're in a car and you have to go into the store and it's pouring rain and you don't have an umbrella, you're going to get wet. And I knew very well walking down this path, especially after December, I'm going to I'm going to have a lot of resistance. My objective isn't to make people happy, even though I'd like to. My objective is to do what I think is the right thing to do for the children in this community. And so that's why our recommendation is what it is. It's to and it's in the PowerPoint. That's our recommendation. No matter which way you go, left or right. Are you are you going to take and try to figure out all the laws and figure out all the dynamics and compare and contrast letters of support against what we're saying? Working with the Department of Editor, you come to a point where you have to rely on us or you say, you know what? I don't rely on you.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I want to make a group of caring adults another year on my recommendation stands. We need to go forward for the reasons in the PowerPoint. And ladies and gentlemen,

[8258-477] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Has also gone through committee. Correct. And this is the same, same recommendation.
TEXT> Same recommendation, but it's much. More it's much it's much more detailed. And it's also evolved. Every month. It's becoming clearer and more detailed. Based on we were forming an idea. We saw the beginning of an increase of identified children. We have a problem. We can't accommodate those children at Maple. We we can't spread them out like like cards in little hats. So our objective is address this issue, address the high school issue, address the tech center issue, comply with the federal law. There are a lot of pieces here. That's my recommendation. Ladies and gentlemen.
NEXT> Unidentified: Do we.

[8258-479] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (sworn in at this meeting, three-year te | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: Do we.
TEXT> Do we have do we have test data as far as the, the readiness of student of the students that have attended the this program and their health. We we we have the percentages of the knowing  we have a very large number of students in our kind of school population that aren't.
NEXT> Unidentified: That.

[8258-593] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (elected at this meeting) | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: Yes, sir.
TEXT> I just wanted to jump on. I do miss if I did between, WPA and Ashley Kale from the medical side of this, the benefit of having Ashley and my daughter experienced it when she was in high school a couple of years ago when she got hurt. And I've had three people, I think in the last three weeks since just since practices have started, that that what she's doing is, is allowing us kids to be safe, but allowing our kids to play and the kids that shouldn't play, not to play. And her value and what Doug has brought to the table is the new Eddie. I can't tell you how good it has been and the feedback we are getting and what Ashley is bringing to the table from from our athletics. It's worth its weight in gold. It really has been a huge, huge help. We have kids that are that are being being able to play that wouldn't have been able to play before because she's helped them rehabilitate and get back in. And other kids that shouldn't be playing aren't playing  because of her concussion protocol and things like that, and working directly and hand in hand with our nurses staff in the district, it's it's a huge addition. I think.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Brian, would your permission, I'd just like to add one sentence to that, Chris. That is, she also is impacting lifelong wellness because injuries that remain unattended to ignored, etc.,

[8258-708] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (elected 4-3 at this meeting) | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: And our colleagues are teaching colleagues on mathematics and writing a district wide agreement involving expectations, the the non-negotiables. And we'd like to stay. I'd like to have that presented to you. Tremendous great work, great work that I'm excited about it because I am.
TEXT> I just I if I may, I just want to thank the board and staff. This was a difficult first meeting  to be at. I promise you, the decisions will get easier. They may even get more difficult, but, Thank you. And, Typically, I've been spending a lot of time  just visiting Maple Ave school. I got to spend some time.  There was an underwater robotics class or a project that I volunteered with. Please go. When you get some time, visit the schools. May make contact with the principal or whatever. Principal. And, you know, please spend some time just to see what's going on in the schools because it's it's really great to to to see it, to see it happening. You know, we can talk about it a lot, but when you're actually there and you see the kids and you, you see them interacting with the teachers and just all the things, all the new things that we've got going on, it's really just amazing to really see it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It is. And Brian, again, if I just elaborate on what Brian said, I'm going to send our new board members an email from Ellie Filene, a teacher at Maple

[8313-3] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-04-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: registration is happening at all of our schools. So for the families that are already in Claremont with students who will be of age for kindergarten next year, now is the time to go to your neighborhood school to register for kindergarten for the fall.
TEXT> Question on the benchmarks.  The benchmark is that what the grade level performance should be at?  All students should be at that by the end of the year. Is that what that represents? So the end of your 15, there's only two thirds of the kindergarten students were meeting the grade level benchmark. Is that correct? How does that affect then? How is that remediated as they go forward to say to the first grade, I mean, is that.
NEXT> Unidentified: The first first grade at that point? Offered a full day of kindergarten. So they right away, I believe, start interventions in their first grade classroom. Okay. That's why it's

[8313-9] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: I would say close to 90 or higher.
TEXT> So it wouldn't be. It shouldn't it shouldn't be unusual that it shouldn't be unusual then to see 90% of our students ready for the first grade. Then it would for that program.
NEXT> Unidentified: It would have been unusual for it to see that previous to a full day, but with a full day, I'm hoping that we can be up at least above

[8313-14] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: I'm.
TEXT> Looking at,  we've already done it in some areas, and we're in the process of adjusting it in all three schools to front load, instruction because we and one of the ladies up here can attest to this. We can make a much larger impact when they're five and six than we can later on down the road.  There's a whole host of research. It's a you know, you'll be hearing more of this from me in the next several meetings.  But I know,  that we have taken all of our resources. Title one teachers, special educators, any extra pair of professionals that may be available during a specific time,  and push them into kindergarten to support kindergarten during those intervention times, which is one of the reasons why you're seeing the the data that you're seeing and why Sarah can say, you know, I fully expect that 90% of my kindergartners will be on grade level entering into first grade. And I would guarantee you that if our first grade colleagues were standing up here and you told them 90% of those kids are going to come in ready, they will be singing and dancing.  Because it's different than what we've seen in the past. And of those few students who won't be  at benchmark by the end of the year, we have demonstrated growth for all of them.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So, even students who are currently intensive, we've seen growth within the intensive range and can demonstrate that they are making progress. They may not be making progress at the

[8313-15] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: going to come in ready, they will be singing and dancing. Because it's different than what we've seen in the past. And of those few students who won't be at benchmark by the end of the year, we have demonstrated growth for all of them.
TEXT> So,  even students who are currently intensive, we've seen growth within the intensive range  and can demonstrate that they are making progress. They may not be making progress at the same rate as others, or they may have been so far behind to start that they have a larger gap to overcome. But all of our kids are making progress right now through the the measures that we have to to, to to look at that and analyze that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The hope is, if I may, Brian, the hope is and the expectation is that in the future, the number of elementary school students who will be referred for special

[8313-16] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: or they may have been so far behind to start that they have a larger gap to overcome. But all of our kids are making progress right now through the the measures that we have to to, to to look at that and analyze that.
TEXT> The hope is, if I may, Brian, the hope is and the expectation is that in the future, the number of elementary school students who will be referred for special needs evaluations will decrease because of the intervention and the full day kindergarten and the intervention that's occurring much earlier  in their elementary school experience. And that decrease in special needs referral will also represent a decrease in costs because, as we all know, special education  is is very, very demanding fiscally. But more importantly,  I look forward to students not getting the message that something is wrong because in the early part of their educational experience, the those gaps will be addressed as we go forward. Remember, Claremont is above the state average with our special education numbers. I look forward to that decreasing as a result of early intervention, as a result of full day kindergarten, and as a result of the of the way our faculty look at each student and, and almost take the students needs apart and rebuild that for future planning as these gaps and challenges are addressed. So this is the beginning of of an exciting process, and I want to publicly. Thank.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Our professional kindergarten teachers because, what you are doing, I wasn't being flipped when I said you are the foundation of public education. What you're doing, and as measured by

[8313-17] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the way our faculty look at each student and, and almost take the students needs apart and rebuild that for future planning as these gaps and challenges are addressed. So this is the beginning of of an exciting process, and I want to publicly. Thank.
TEXT> Our  professional kindergarten teachers because,  what you are doing, I wasn't being flipped when I said you are the foundation of public education. What you're doing, and as measured by our children is an enormous impact not only on their education but also on their future lives. So so thank you and look forward to having you come back as well for an update. Thank you.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any other questions? Michelle.

[8313-37] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: I didn't see them.
TEXT> So August. First and second, the Professional Development Committee will be getting together to talk about,  we are in the process of adopting  a writing and adopting a new master plan, which will be coming forward to you at some time in the next month and a half or so.  And so what will it look like to implement that master plan? What training will be required, and then what will the professional development model look like moving forward?  Because we're changing the way we do professional learning, and it's not just going to be go to a conference and, you know, get the hours for it. But what's the impact of that learning on your teaching, on your on your instruction? And ultimately, what's the impact of your learning as a professional on your students?  So the Professional Development Committee is one committee and standards based grading, as Brant has so kindly volunteered to participate in. That is another committee. And off the top of my head I hadn't come up with any others. So. But those are the two priority areas.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: On the Professional Development Committee. You know, is this only certain special development for teachers or paraprofessionals as well?

[8313-80] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Brent Ferland: that, that we can all live with, on that front. So, I think that that discussion may be more important than the actual plans, what the splits going to be, because I think that's what most of these units are going to be looking at.
TEXT> That's why, on behalf of the board, if I may, Brian, on behalf of the board, I gave  the Sri a that letter. We need to start now. We we really can't wait till the fall because the seat after Thanksgiving and we get into December, we've just run out of time. So we I really hope we can start early and plan accordingly and not and have more options as far as dates and do this the right way. And I do hope that  the union representatives are at the table with us as we go through these options. So there are part of that discussion because they when you're talking about changes and health insurance,  you're talking about protecting your family. They everyone needs to know what that represents and what that looks like. It's much more than just the money aspect. So  I hope that we'll have time to do this. I know we'll have time to do that. If we can do it this spring, start at the spring.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: How likely is it that they'd be willing to start negotiating this? You know, sooner than later? Because I'm thinking if we could get the SRA a kind of button

[8313-187] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: One school fourth grade overnight trip.
TEXT> In your packet, there's a two page request from the Bluff Elementary School.  The fourth grade White Mountain Field trip, June 2016. This is a almost an annual event. The Bluff Elementary School has come back to the board and made a PowerPoint presentation for the past, at least I think a few years.  I their their track record. Is, I guess you could call it the reputation precedes itself with the way these trips have been run and the engagement of the students involvement of the parents.  And you can see on the second page the cost and how they intend to go about paying for, this. So I would recommend the board consider approving this this trip.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: I move that we approve the Bluff Elementary School fourth grade overnight.

[8313-234] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-04-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: And that physical exam is within a year span and you're playing football within that year you don't need another one.
TEXT> So but but so all our students at the high school then have a physical every year before they start school. Or is there is that required?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It looks like it's, when you first enter elementary school, when you first enter middle school, and then.

[8313-247] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Brent Ferland: team would be a pain in the butt. And so is that. And it just seems to me that. But for valid medical reasons, I can see what you're saying that, you know, to cover us. I could see why you'd want to have that.
TEXT> Common practice. There are some districts we've learned that X don't require it annually. It could be every other year.  But, you know, following the medical advice  of our of our nurse, of our athletic trainer,  the recommend and the wellness of our students, we want to be sure that the young men and women who participate in our athletic program  are physically well. And able to do so.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: And is there that. All that being said, having read the. There is a something in here about federal money to perform physical. Do we have a, a policy in

[8313-248] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-04-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the medical advice of our of our nurse, of our athletic trainer, the recommend and the wellness of our students, we want to be sure that the young men and women who participate in our athletic program are physically well. And able to do so.
TEXT> And is there that. All that being said, having read the. There is a something in here about federal money to perform physical. Do we have a, a policy in place for those students that may not have access to, regular care physicians, the that there's money or a way for them to get exam provided.
NEXT> Unidentified: The answer.

[8313-257] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: The.
TEXT> The first page, the lower portion of it. The RSA requires a superintendent and let me back it up. In the past, if there was a student who it was in the best interest of the student. Let's say there  the child was going to one of her elementary schools, and then the student parents moved to another elementary school within our community. And it was four months to go before the end of the school year. The child,  would it the best interest to remain within their current school and the parent would transport them back and forth? Principal agrees. Parent makes a request. This new RSA requires me to come to you and seek approval. So the reason I bring this up is  I would ask you, with your permission,  may I make these decisions in the best interest of the student and not have to wait two weeks to come to you? Then I would come to you. I wouldn't tell you the child's name because of of the the person on the privacy, but I would say what I've just said. So I just want you to know that this RSA that came into effect this year, for whatever reason, brings the school boards into this. And it's same with Unity and Cornish, but  because of a 2 or 3 week period of laps. If you would give me license to do this representing you and then I would bring it to you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So it's the law that it comes to us.

[8313-281] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: Or whatever is in the best.
TEXT> That's it. That's. So I just want to be above board with you,  that this is the new IRS. A it was approved four months ago. And I just want to let you know that at times, it isn't the best interest of the student not to have to wait two weeks for the superintendent to come to the board.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: We have to do a motion on this, or we just say, that's cool.

[8313-300] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: We have some donations.
TEXT> Yes. In your package. You have a memo dated April 6th. Tom. Tom,  a company that we are all familiar with is donated $500 to the Stem Fest event that we had last Saturday.  And also the Claremont Middle School was approached by the Children's Fund school, Children's Fund Upper Valley  and approach that school and said, we would like to offer a donation of $5,000, and that $5,000 is to provide a children's fund, school based cross country running initiative for our our middle school students. And those. There are two pages that explain this initiative, which is a wonderful, a wonderful opportunity for our middle school students. $5,000.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Can I.

[8313-305] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: One.
TEXT> A couple. I don't believe it's I'm looking at the dates and I don't think it's actually come forward to the board, which is the, Cliff year of the book award that hasn't come forward to the board. Correct. Okay.  So the Maple Avenue Elementary School, put in for a grant with the Children's Literacy Foundation, cliff  and,  the Children's Literacy Foundation awarded nine schools, $25,000 each in literacy program support and new books. And Maple Avenue Elementary is an award recipient, one of those nine schools who received a $25,000. Grant.  And so much of that grant was actually written by Jillian Rap. And  the team. So Jillian, she's the library media specialist para maple Avenue Elementary, Dan Cherry and a couple other team members went,  last week to the orientation meeting about that grant. And so if we can add that as an action item to approve that award, it comes in the form of professional development program assistance, technical assistance, and actual physical books. So that is an amazing award for that school, that school library. And I know that the PTO is supportive and on board with that as well.  So that's one.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: There's no money, just services. And.

[8313-371] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: Good, great.
TEXT> And communication. Talking to Charlene Lovett today and, you know, talking with Guy Sandgate, there was some informal discussion. Could we have a communication position that would be shared between the city council and the school board? It's an idea.  Nothing formal. But can we have if if I had another 5 or 6 hours a week, I could easily put out a publication once, once a week to the community. For the sake of my health. Insanity. I just can't do that. I would love to be able to. However, there is so much to share with the community.  Our successes, our challenges, what we're doing. And it's needed. It is needed. And so I am very interested in, in improving our communication with the community.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I'll jump on that one.

[8313-386] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Why don't you come?
TEXT> So, I believe, that takes care of our business with the understanding that we have some future agenda items. If I if I may, Brian, very quickly, at at the April 20th meeting, I'd like to have a discussion with next year's school calendar. There's a presentation May 4th, Youth Behavior Study Group, as well as a discussion of academic achievement, gold progress reports of our respective principals, as well as the robotics presentation. And then you can see June 8th is quite a list as we go forward, including request for proposals, food service, transportation, custodial. I think, Becky.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: I would like a future agenda item.

[8380-13] Marian Lovett | Student representative, Stevens High School (name per Superintendent [ | 2016-05-04
PREV> Marian Lovett: program is up and running. This is being rolled out with plans for full implementation starting in the fall. This is a program focusing on students with English language arts skills deficits, with the goals of bringing all students up to reading levels and beyond.
TEXT> The. That's how many Stevens and Stevens High School and age scholars will be attending a Fisher Cats game celebration on May 5th, and a luncheon in their honor at the Teal Room on May 12th. The All Schools Community Service Day was a success. Parents students went out to Saint-Gaudens for number four  and Moody Park's Arrowhead Downtown, Rails to Trails, Summer Street, etc. The Arts Honor Society works on painting words of excellence in the hallways, as well as the school motto of No Reward without effort. Above the entrance lintel, the Owls program students have raised $120 for Sullivan County Humane Society by having a free car wash, and all donations went towards the charity. Then they walked it down to the Humane Society and handed it to them. Probably the best part of the experience for our students. On Sunday, April 24th, the SAS Gay Straight Transgender Alliance took 13 students to the GLS Ian's Prom Out Loud in Manchester, N.H. Liza Draper and Amanda Parker, the faculty advisor, attended with the students.
NEXT> Marian Lovett: It was a great time for all. Dancing and merriment ensued and shared, and though the students arrived home at one on Monday morning, they attended school with tired faces

[8380-14] Marian Lovett | Student representative, Stevens High School (name per Superintendent [ | 2016-05-04
PREV> Marian Lovett: Probably the best part of the experience for our students. On Sunday, April 24th, the SAS Gay Straight Transgender Alliance took 13 students to the GLS Ian's Prom Out Loud in Manchester, N.H. Liza Draper and Amanda Parker, the faculty advisor, attended with the students.
TEXT> It was a great time for all. Dancing and merriment ensued and shared, and though the students arrived home at one on Monday morning, they attended school with tired faces and happy hearts. We hope to make this an annual event at the GST grows and develops patterns for our future. In addition, we have begun  mentoring relationship with the Rainbow Alliance at Colby Sawyer College to help students with questions about life after high school. Jake Lapointe, a senior at Stevens High School and a student at sugar River Valley Technical Center, is a skills USA champion. Jake has been notified that he will receive a $5,000 scholarship from the Community College System of NH. He will use these funds to further his post-secondary studies in V, a C, which is plumbing, heating, ventilation and air conditioning. Jake is also fundraising to attend the skills USA Conference in Louisville, Kentucky, June 20th the 25th as the NH competitor  Varian Plumbing. This is a great reflection on our students, schools and faculty and is an honor to represent S and NH in the prestigious event. SAS has had many skills, MH, CTE students and competitions over the years and has placed as high as third at the USA international competitions in the past.
NEXT> Marian Lovett: Donations should be sent to Bev. Janelle as R v RTC 111 South Street, Claremont, Hampshire. Please make checks playable to Claremont School District with Jake Lapointe skills Conference and

[8380-16] Marian Lovett | Student representative, Stevens High School (name per Superintendent [ | 2016-05-04
PREV> Marian Lovett: maximizing the surface areas and volumes of storage tanks and packages. They are also formulating their own solutions strategies for related rate problems by taking simple algebra and area and volume formulas, and applying calculus methods to find velocities and rates of change of fluids.
TEXT> These fluids include gases, liquids, and granular solids. In today's Valley News, there is an article on the Flow of History project, which two of our Stevens teachers are heavily involved in. Nancy Lewis and Jill Chastain. And I'll pass out the article now.  I also want to add it on the side note that wasn't in the email. Our student athlete leadership team was able to raise $200 in the school for the stepping up event at Turning Points Network. I know that their goal this year was $100,000, and they were able to raise 96,000 at the event, and they were also,  I think, able to raise the extra 4000 with the online donations and the corporations. Now, $200 doesn't seem much, but when you go every Monday and you're asking the students and their flags just to donate whatever changes they have left because you don't know what type of home they have or their money situation, and when they give all that, they have to go and help someone else's life that they don't even know. It's a truly amazing experience. So I just want to give a shout out for everyone in the student or in the student population who either helped donate, or who had these people and their thoughts and heart as this event happened. So thank you. I'm sorry that I don't sound too great, but thank you for struggling on listening.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thanks for that. Any questions? Move on to the superintendent's report. Thank you. Thanks.

[8380-20] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: am I advertising, but I just want to wish our former employee well, as well as letting everyone know that these are the kind of initiatives in the city of Claremont that are going to be turning the ship of Claremont initiatives of this nature.
TEXT> I'll  I'll pass this along.  But I again, this Saturday is a soft opening, and we look forward to our former colleague April Woodman and her business expanding. I also wish to pass around, some books, and this is a representation of what students at the Maple Avenue Elementary School  are receiving as a result of a $25,000 Cliff Grant for literacy  that Jillian  Rapp,  library librarian paraprofessional, applied for that grant, it was awarded, and the children of Maple Avenue were going to be benefiting throughout the year, and they are going to be given copies of these books to take home theirs. So one on one message, not only their own books, but also the importance of ongoing reading.  And last but certainly not least, this this afternoon I was visiting several schools. And by the way,  when you sit down  at a kindergarten table and though my knees are up by my ears and the seats, and you watch what these little boys and girls are doing. It is so wonderful. And it just it really is fuel for my fire and should be for your fire supporting full day kindergarten.  We had a presentation last month by the kindergarten teachers, but to see it and to look at them and to listen and do it, just just remarkable.  But coming back, I had this book on my desk, epilepsy and back.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And this was written by a gentleman by the name of Thomas Tony. Tony Olo Tonioli and Tom Tonioli is a former English teacher with Stevens High School. And I'd

[8380-23] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Any questions for the Superintendent Avenue?
TEXT> The grant was written for Maple Avenue Elementary School.  It is not open for all the other schools.  But each school shall each school has different initiatives.  And so I'm not trying to compare one school to the other, but though Maple Avenue, certainly through the work of Jillian rep, has this wonderful $25,000 grant and benefiting students. Our other schools also have different initiatives  that likewise have better things students. And I'm not saying that in a defensive way or that everything is even. But each school is different. Each school is committed to provide what they are providing to our children.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We'll move on to citizens comments.

[8380-62] Andy | Public commenter, Stevens High School senior (self-identified first na | 2016-05-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: How many classes was that?
TEXT> Our two.  Or honest algebra one two honors geometry, Pre-Calculus, statistics, calculus, calculus. And my year last year. And then going into this year, I was like, hey, I'm out of math. What do I do? Because I don't want to go my entire senior year and then into college having to take a math class, but without having done it for an entire year. So luckily, they added a new math course, Mathematics of Finance, which I was able to pick up and is now a full year  long.  And I think it, it kind of depends on the student in the math you want to take each year. I mean, I haven't really been able to experience taking math with the schedule aside from this one class, and I've had it all year, so  I feel like I would have just done like algebra one freshman, you know, maybe algebra two, or kind of depending on where I wanted to go with my math future,  I would have tailored it towards,  you know, maybe if you're a little smarter going into
NEXT> Andy: freshman year, you can start out with our cells for two, and then maybe you want to go right into pre-calculus stats and then, you know, do calculus your senior

[8380-65] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Any other comments? Okay. We'll close citizens comments, wanted discussion items. We have a youth risk behavior study group presentation.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I'm very pleased to welcome, Lisa Draper. Who has working with the Youth Risk Behavior Study Group, has been developing a PowerPoint that's going to summarize our work this winter

[8380-66] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Any other comments? Okay. We'll close citizens comments, wanted discussion items. We have a youth risk behavior study group presentation.
TEXT> I'm very pleased to welcome, Lisa Draper. Who has working with the Youth Risk Behavior Study Group, has been developing a PowerPoint that's going to summarize  our work this winter and to the spring work that remains ongoing. But at least as promised, we wanted to give you, the board and the community  appropriately port as to what we have learned and where this study group is is heading. As far as a recommendation for  the Claremont School District. Welcome, Lisa.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: Thank you. So I'm Lisa Draper, I work for TLC Family Resource Center, and I'm also a Claremont parent and a voter in Ward three. I wanted to just explain

[8380-67] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: remains ongoing. But at least as promised, we wanted to give you, the board and the community appropriately port as to what we have learned and where this study group is is heading. As far as a recommendation for the Claremont School District. Welcome, Lisa.
TEXT> Thank you. So I'm Lisa Draper, I work for TLC Family Resource Center, and I'm also a Claremont parent and a voter in Ward three. I wanted to just explain the study group quickly. It was assembled at the request of the superintendent. Thank you for supporting the formation of it back in September, when you voted to allow us to move forward. And what we then did was put out an open invitation to parents and community members and staff, and seek participants in it. And I just wanted to acknowledge that a number of those people who have dedicated lots and lots of time to this are here tonight. So I hope that you will stand and I will introduce you as you do so. So Lisa Duvall, who teaches health at the middle school, Susan Varanus, who works here at sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center as their nurse, Cheryl Ferland, who teaches health at the high school. Dennis McNichol, whom you've met already as he reviewed other components of the Youth Risk Behavior Survey with you. And he is with the Public Health Network. So thank you all for coming. And there are some additional members.  My boss, Maggie,  Monroe Castle from TLC. And then we had a few other folks, including April Woodman, who can't be here tonight. So I thank them all for having taken a part in this. Let me explain. And first let me Corey, let me make this work.
NEXT> Unidentified: Corey on. Okay. Corey.

[8380-82] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: the same rate. So, well, right now, the National Campaign to Prevent Teenage Pregnancy is celebrating Pregnancy Prevention Month. And in fact, today is National Day to Prevent Teen Pregnancy this very day. And they are celebrating how much this has changed across the country.
TEXT> But regrettably, it is much slower to change in rural communities  as we find ourselves in here. The increased number of STIs STIs are most prevalent among young people. There are about 19 million new cases of STIs a year. The estimated CDC figures that 50% of those or so  are among young people. And by young people, I mean particularly ages 20 to 24. That's the highest rates. And then 13 to 19. Here, for example, chlamydia, which is one of the most commonly or the most commonly reported STI in general. In New Hampshire, you would see 271 cases per 100,000. Here you would see 292.3, which is a significant increase over what is true elsewhere. The same is true of gonorrhea. And these figures come from both the CDC  and the New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services. The reason that these things, as unpleasant as they may sound to talk about are important is they have long term health implications, particularly for young women. So untreated chlamydia and gonorrhea can result in public inflammatory disease that can result in infertility and tuple blockage and lots of other health issues beyond. So they are important to realize as a health problem for our kids.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: Coercion. Dating violence and sexual assault. Last year, there was a great deal of attention to sexual assault on college campuses. I'll hold that for a second. But, on our

[8380-83] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: health implications, particularly for young women. So untreated chlamydia and gonorrhea can result in public inflammatory disease that can result in infertility and tuple blockage and lots of other health issues beyond. So they are important to realize as a health problem for our kids.
TEXT> Coercion. Dating violence and sexual assault. Last year, there was a great deal of attention to sexual assault on college campuses. I'll hold that for a second. But, on our own surveys and elsewhere, generally, 1 in 10 teens reports having been somehow coerced into a sexual behavior, whether it's kissing, touching or being physically forced to engage in sexual intercourse when they did not want to. That speaks to a need to really understand consent,  and to teach consent. 1 in 10 reports. Being hit or physically hurt on purpose by someone with whom they're in a relationship with in the last 12 months. So that's dating violence. So intimate partner violence isn't just something that goes on in homes or in adult relationships. It happens in young ones, too. And most alarmingly, 40% plus of the victims of sexual assault  or young people, almost 30% are between the ages of 12 and 17. So moving. Back okay, so what do the surveys show us? Well, first let's start with what they tell us on the national level, because I think that gives you some context and the ability to put things in perspective.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: So nationally, we know that not all teenagers are abstinent. About 47% of all high school students across the United States report that they've had sexual intercourse. And you can

[8380-88] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: Wire tries to capture students orientation. 90% of New Hampshire students overall identify themselves as heterosexual. At Stevens, that figures a little lower. It's 88%. And then it shows you the percentage of students overall who have actually had contact with partners of both sexes.
TEXT> And that's a little bit lower, at Stevens. So then the question comes, so what do we do with all this stuff? Right.  So we've been trying to use this data to inform our instruction, and I'm actually going to start at the top and work my way down. So I'm going to start at the high school. So one of the things that we've been talking about in our committee, and it has a long way to go, is looking at the time that's available for health and whether that's sufficient for all the things that we need to communicate to our students to keep them safe. Another is taking advantage of extracurricular programing. So funding that's available to other agencies in the community, like TLC, to provide additional education on some of these topics. For the last several years, it's only been available to young women. We are hoping in the next cycle of funding to be able to include young men as well, and younger students as well. At the middle school, a new program has gone through the Curriculum Council and been approved. Its next steps will be to align to be aligned with  our study groups recommendations, the curriculum that we're looking at for the elementary level and to comply with national standards because there are national standards of best practices. I believe you receive those in your advanced packet  at the elementary school.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: The committee has actually settled on a curriculum to recommend to the Curriculum Council. We chosen, or were recommending that the Curriculum Council approved the Great Body Shop, and that

[8380-90] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: that in order for that to come to fruition, at the elementary level, it will need to move through the Curriculum Council. It will need professional development. So staff members will be designated to work with the new curriculum and will need to train them.
TEXT> At the middle school level. I said, we're working on that curriculum right now and at the high school level. So now I've reversed things that I'm going in the other order. We're still trying to evaluate what do our students need? And we're still working with students on that. Oh,  sorry. So hang on. I think there's one more. Nope. That's it. So I think I'm done. But I  have my whole team here with me, and we are open to your questions and have at it. Thank you for listening to all that. Everyone  all. Yeah. Thank that way please. Any questions or comments? Concerns.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So this is something we're looking at instituting in this district starting next year.

[8380-92] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: So this is something we're looking at instituting in this district starting next year.
TEXT> Starting with K to five next year, assuming that we are able to secure the approval of the curriculum committee and the cabinet. That's the process. And then going on from there, and we, the YB s committee will now turn our attention to the other list of behaviors. So we started by tackling this set. We also want to go on and look at  the other categories that I went through at the very beginning to see is what we're doing working for our students in those categories, do we need to do something different there? What kind of resources could we draw on to ensure that our students are safe across all those categories? So this is just the first step for a very dedicated group, Brian.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So as you may or may not know, as a school board, one of our local policy indicates that the school board actually approves all curriculum based on recommendation from,

[8380-98] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Right. And then I think that's what it was. Was that kind of the parameters of kind of I think when we when the story was put together to kind of look at it only in terms of the no.
TEXT> I think that all aspects of our children's well-being is a community wide issue, for sure. So but for the purposes of this presentation, we were trying to address your needs as school board members to be apprized of what we've been up to for these many months, and to have a sense of the direction that we believe we're headed in, so that when we come back, which I expect we will with more requests and information for you, it's not out of the blue.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Thank you so much.

[8380-107] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (split cluster; completes her question b | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: shared information, but I don't know so I can't answer. But if you would like, I will certainly look into it and we can get back to you if someone will just write it down. Because if I can't work this, I can't remember that.
TEXT> And unable to participate. What's stopping those children?
NEXT> Lisa Draper: Their parents might not have given them consent. So it is. Remember, it's voluntary and it requires parental consent. So if I don't want my, student to be asked questions

[8380-112] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Is there.
TEXT> That's pretty good. By the way, three. Quarters. Of your students doing anything I think is really pretty good. So that's pretty good.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Approximately.

[8380-116] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Cory LeClair: I think we're around 120 right now. We've had what I would consider a surge of homeschoolers this year. I can get the exact numbers for the next meeting if you'd.
TEXT> Like, and then you'd want to narrow that to the students in the age range and grade range.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Yes. Because that's that's homeschoolers K 12, right. In our.

[8380-156] Dennis McNichol | Youth Risk Behavior Study Group member, regional public health (uncert | 2016-05-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: What would happen cross purposes.
TEXT> You know, a ninth grade class for example, would take the  data the  the test at two years later they would take it in as juniors. But there would also be additional sophomores and freshmen that would be taking it when that ninth grade class was 11th grade. So so you know, the so where an increase could happen potentially is from not only that class  but also additional youth answering those questions.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: I understand that when I was looking the breakup that we had, I'm going to use ninth grade, say 13% said they had sexual, that they were sexually active before

[8380-180] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: in Sullivan County last year. So we're still struggling. We would like it to be as low as the rest of the state. And that involves a lot of different things. So education is certainly a piece. There are a lot of others as well.
TEXT> If I may. I just want to let the board know. Back in January, I received a call from the state complimenting the Claremont School District for developing and having this committee because in truth, the data is difficult. But if you're honest with the data and you compare what the data says over time to our investment in curriculum, our investment in providing students access to age appropriate, great, appropriate information, the objective is to use the data not to characterize children or families, but rather are we meeting the needs of our students based on their behavior, based on their choices? The state indicated very clearly this is not the norm. Most districts don't go into this because the data is unpleasant, but it's our obligation, we feel, to go into this difficult area and to be transparent and candid with the community, not to characterize, not to blame or shame, but to say, are we meeting the needs? Or ask, are we meeting the needs of our students with our curriculum, with our investment in health education from K  to 12? And that's,  I'm proud to say, has been the the real goal of this effort. And we're just starting to scratch the surface. We have many other topics.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: We have five. More categories to go.

[8380-182] Dennis McNichol | Youth Risk Behavior Study Group member, regional public health (uncert | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: We have five. More categories to go.
TEXT> I also just want to, comment on middle. Middleton just said  I have the great fortune to work with the other districts in our region, and by far Middleton  and the Claremont School Board School District. Excuse me, is taking the most proactive approach. They're not hiding from it. They they are looking to change, the unhealthy behaviors and and dangerous situations that the youth could are in or and confine themselves in. So I, I look forward to meeting with the wire BS group, a wonderful group of caring individuals across across the spectrum, and I am deeply appreciative of Middleton's effort to improving the two, proving the school, school and the community as well. And it is it is it is very rare. So I do want to just take this opportunity to commend Middleton for his efforts..
NEXT> Lisa Draper: And thank you all, because you've given us a lot of your time and I know it can get late here.

[8380-187] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Public.
TEXT> If I may respond to that. If you look at the Youth Behavior Study Committee, we are not a closed shop. We are not just school district employees or staff. We have invited parents, we've invited the community, TLC and others. So that's really and so the the expectation is that this isn't going to be a silo of school district initiatives, but rather it's going to be the community working in a collaborative way because it is the community's challenge. And the data to me, indicates students need some additional information so they can make informed decisions.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8380-191] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: closed shop. We we we need the community to be a part of this effort. And any president who's invested a staff member resident doesn't even have a child in our school district. If they're invested in being a part of this. We welcome it.
TEXT> And I  did. And I appreciate that that that information, I was only and I think just speaking with this I would like I, I, I understand I've kind of learned that the city council was busy that they had a meeting, this evening. I know that these meetings are school board meetings regarding the schools.  I at the same time, I, I, I think would be kind of a kind of a good kind of, gesture on our part to, to be I to be contacting, inviting the city council to attend the public presentation, even if it's a school board meeting as well as, not, we have a lot of not not we have a lot of groups, and individuals already working with, youth and families in the city. I guess I know that I know that maybe it's more  kind of more symbolic, but  I just look at I mean, it seems like these presentations, this these studies, presentations are important, very important. And I think that we have to start going forward as a coalition. And not even  the not getting too caught up into thinking, okay, we're you know, we're going to deal with our school partner, you're going to deal with this part. And I feel like that we all need to be on the same page. So, you know, I, I contacted some say council members say they were not aware of the meeting.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: They wouldn't have been able to make it anyway. But it's I think that if we're talking the two different partners talking about trying to kind of have meetings, I

[8380-193] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: kind of trying to kind of come together for these things just it seems like, you know, I'd like to like that, you know, as a district, we take what kind of maybe take some of the initiative and bite them and bite other people.
TEXT> Well, and, you know, just to be fair, that this is this is  sort of for our, our benefit. It's a survey of our students. We do have a we are planning on having a joint meeting, and I'm sure that these groups would be happy to come and present to the joint the joint meeting at that time and, and help include them. So, yeah.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Can I.

[8380-205] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: We'll come back to that. Okay. And we'll move on to Stephen's High. Scheduled presentations.
TEXT> Good evening. There is a. There's a two sided piece of two sided article written by Patrick Grady in the Valley News that talks about tonight's meeting  and the topic tonight.  The presentation is going to be two sided, if you will. I'm going to make a brief presentation about the evolution of this change. I'm very much respect our students who who spoke in favor or opposed to it. This is not about, anything other than what the information we have gathered over time. And tonight's presentation is going to be a part of that. But before I begin, I want to talk about three dates. The first date is June 6th, 2011. In this very room, when I was one of four candidates for the superintendency of South Six, and I was asked a question by a gentleman in the back and he said, what do you what do you think about the kneecap and and how do you use data? And I said to him that you can use data to blame someone, to rush judgment, to point fingers, make excuses, or you can use data to take a step back and ask, what is this really mean? And if there's a pattern of data,  you have to ask yourself, is this the kind of data we like to see?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Are we doing what we think is in the best interest of students? And so June 6th, 2011, and the result of that, one of the writers in one of

[8380-206] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: judgment, to point fingers, make excuses, or you can use data to take a step back and ask, what is this really mean? And if there's a pattern of data, you have to ask yourself, is this the kind of data we like to see?
TEXT> Are we doing what we think is in the best interest of students? And so June 6th, 2011, and the result of that, one of the writers in one of our local papers called me the data Guy. And I remember that reading that in Massachusetts. And, and I just consider myself to be someone who,  is not a numbers guy, but is constantly asking, how are things going and not rushing because they see a  dip or a rise, but. Rather in gathering this information over time, because you can talk to one person  and say, oh, this is terrible. But if you talk to one person and many people, over time you start to get a feel and then you look at other sources as well. February 2013. The school board met because the sugar River Education Association had had  had  voted on what they call a vote of no confidence against me. And the reason I bring up that scar tissue is that I was going down some paths and dealing with some challenging issues, and they took exception to that. And I'm not defensive about it. It is their right to do that. But the school board had a special meeting, and talked about it. I know the mayor can have some parents spoke about it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And the good news is that I'm still standing here and it wasn't me against them. It's not me against them because I they are my colleagues. But they had

[8380-207] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: some challenging issues, and they took exception to that. And I'm not defensive about it. It is their right to do that. But the school board had a special meeting, and talked about it. I know the mayor can have some parents spoke about it.
TEXT> And the good news is that I'm still standing here and it wasn't me against them. It's not me against them because I they are my colleagues. But they had some concerns about how I was doing business, and some of the things I was doing had not been done before. With all due respect to my predecessor and that, would that represent a change? And last but not least, April 11th and April 11th, there was a press release by the sugar River Education Association, and it had to do with the recent arbitration. And I'm going to talk about that tonight, because that presentation, which is their right to do. But I'm interested in providing the other side of the coin. Now, this isn't going to be a debate, but I want you to know the especially the community, the other side of the coin with with this issue regarding where we are. So the purpose of tonight's presentation is to discuss some history, the evolution. To talk about student achievement data.  And then Pat Barry is going to pick up and talk a little bit about the A B schedule. And we heard from our, our students tonight very important information. And I'm sure Pat's going to be speaking to that not to point counterpoint but rather to discuss  where we are and what our plans are for next year.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Talking about a schedule for a school board should be an ongoing issue because of all the things the school board does, student achievement and improving it is your number

[8380-208] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: about the A B schedule. And we heard from our, our students tonight very important information. And I'm sure Pat's going to be speaking to that not to point counterpoint but rather to discuss where we are and what our plans are for next year.
TEXT> Talking about a schedule for a school board  should be an ongoing issue because of all the things the school board does, student achievement and improving it is your number one priority because this district exists not for adults like me, but for students, and that the question always should be, how is what we're doing benefiting students? Not what I want as an adult to do? So let's talk about the evolution. I want to first talk about Frank Sprague because he's number one on the discussion. It was 2011. Franklin, assistant principal. I had just broken ground here. I've been here a month. And Frank, in your office, we had a conversation. You said, you know, Middleton, I've been looking at the knee cap results, and I think I've identified something. We're not pleased with the knee cap result, but when I looked into the reading portion of that, when I looked into the English language arts portion of that, I think I've identified a pattern. We have problems with writing. We have problems with writing. Now, that was one person's view. But I remember another view was a former student, top of her class.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I think it was a class of 2008, 2007. She went to Saint Paul's as a as a junior, very bright girl, received a lot of awards. She said to

[8380-211] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: where they had not been formally observed. And you observe to identify if or the any areas that the teacher or staff member needs support. You don't observe to measure and grade you supervise. That is administrators responsibility. Academic expectations. There were concerns about that.
TEXT> We don't know if our students are receiving what they need. Now. Someone will say, how can you say that? I work hard, I've been a teacher here for years. You're talking about me. I'm not talking about a person. I'm talking about a perception. I'm talking about what people have been saying to me and what people have repeatedly expressed. The Claremont community. This was clear the community values their schools, but they were dissatisfied with the lack of results. They expect more academic progress for their investment. I didn't know what that meant because this was the summer of 2011 and I reported this in the fall, but this allowed me and the board to at least explain what I've learned in my entry plan. And now let's start setting some courses. And we did that slowly in the summer of 2012. As this evolution continues, Frank Sprague is hired as a new high school principal, but I kept on hearing a year into my tenure. There's concerns about lack of results, lack of results, and I didn't understand what that meant. I know what what it means, but can you give me some data? So I asked a staff member, can you give me? I'm hearing about lack of results. Can you give me information? And this is what I learned and I've showed this to you before.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The class of 20 1112, my first year. This is. These are the percent of students who were failing. Now, am I using this? Am I using this to judge,

[8380-213] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: would talk about her portfolios of students. One of her colleagues said. The saddest thing is the number of kids who will not get to work with her. She was not only dedicated, but she wouldn't accept mediocrity. And she showed me portfolios of students.
TEXT> And their writing and what the writing looked like in the early part of the course and what the writing was looking like afterwards. She was very focused, would never give up on a student. And but one thing she said was very clear. She said it's critical that we established district wide agreement involving grade level academic expectations. As you also said, students need to write more. Which brought me back to Frank Sprague in August of 2011. Okay, expectations, teachers expectations are critical. She had the expectation. You're not writing well, but my expectation is you will learn to write well and there will be no excuses. And the teachers beliefs of students, if they do not have that expectation that transfers into the students success as well. So right from the get go, it's expectations. And at the very powerful but hidden mindset that has a major impact on our students. In 20 1314. As I began my my third year, we started to identify and did essential skills, non-negotiable skills in math and in writing. For K to five, we need to know what do we need to clarify?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: What do we want students know and be able to do? And in the perfect world, those students grade after grade will acquire that. And part of that was writing

[8380-215] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: weren't taking access to this. The game plan was 1314 were going to phase it in and 1415 full implementation. But in May and this, this started to have me a little more aware about how things are done or how things have been done.
TEXT> The group of teachers got together and they voted and they voted by majority not to do it. And so it fell apart. And I'm saying to myself, wait a minute, we have a student need. We have specific issues, and a group of employees are going to say, no, we're not going to do it. No, I'm not being disrespectful. But that's sort of a mindset. Wait a minute.  The change is based on student need, but we're voting not to do it. I think it was a if I recall, Frank was surprised at that, too. Pat Barry is hired in the spring of 2014. And in August, the first thing I said that Pat was simply this. Pat, I'd like you to answer a question. Will you please ask colleagues of yours to volunteer to serve on a scheduling committee and just answer this question? Is the current schedule? The 4x4 the block schedule meeting the needs of all students.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And I said to her, I am not telling you I have an expected outcome. And so she started the process. And this is what the committee found. These are

[8380-218] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: be in this position because I have to be forthcoming and honest with this information. Junior year, harder than senior year need to be reversed. Ask students to do more. Year long courses are good for retention. This comes from students. 2003 13 years ago.
TEXT> So the one thing that we haven't done that I want to start doing in June, actually it's going to be made this month, is to get a more wide cross-section of students because most of the students  are your your high academic achievers, if you will. And I want to get a more cross-section of students. But there has been a pattern. So Padbury, working with her Stevens High School Scheduling Committee, made school board presentations, had frequent discussions with the high school staff. Pat was send out on Sunday night. Monday minutes. I think they're called Monday notes and it would be ongoing summary of what's going on. And it included a great deal about the scheduling. And we even had the board was concerned, you know, this is a major change. What does the community think? So we had public forums. They weren't well attended. They were publicized televised, but we did not get negative kickback. So in 20 1415 the ball was rolling and we feel we're on the right track knowing that nothing is going to be perfect and it's going to be several years, 2 or 3, four years to really fine tune it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But in February, the union filed agreements and said, you can't do this. And when I say union, I want to make something very clear to you. I'm not talking

[8380-226] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: about 1972. Do you know the law that was that changed opportunities for females? You know what it's called? Quiz 121 big pardon. Thank you sir. Its title nine. In the 1950s, girls in basketball had to run half court. They didn't have the strength.
TEXT> They had to be. Had to take it easy because they didn't have the ability. That was a mindset.  And female student athletes in the 40s and 50s had minimal, minimal opportunities. Look at that picture. Those ladies don't have the strength to play more than half court. Well, we've learned a lot, haven't we? Mary and Love is one of them. One example.  Watch that young lady on the field hockey field. And I can tell you right now, Marian Lovett doesn't have to be coddled in title nine has allowed her to be herself. And look what has done to high school participation of females since title nine. So. This is where we are heading. District wide agreement involving academic expectations. I will tell you that Kathleen Bonnell has been working with K through 12 teachers, teachers meeting in groups, middle school, high school, faculty and content areas meeting to identify and clarify district wide expectations so the elementary is attached to the middle and the middle to the high. And they're not disconnected.  They may be in the same town, but it doesn't mean they are connected. And so the goal is that over time, our students will be much more prepared as they pass through. And by the way, when you saw the Stephens High School data of 20 1112, don't misunderstand me, that's not a 9 to 12 issue.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's a K through 12 issue. So I want to publicly make a reminder to that. But it's real stuff and we're moving to correct that. So Pat Barrie is

[8380-229] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Please if we could the robotics club is here. There was a mix up in time. Perfect. Could we take a little bit of a break, let them do their thing, and then we'll come back so we can have a full, robust discussion. Perfect.
TEXT> But just to wrap up, there's a reason for this recommended change. And this is what I presented. There'll be arguments for and against. But this is not about the merits of block scheduling. This is not about it's good or it's bad. It's about what our students over time are telling us. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Communication with. That's okay. We would like. Not necessarily.

[8380-232] Pam |  | 2016-05-04
PREV> Pam: at different angles and the ROV has to go through and come back. It is on a tether with a control box. The second challenge changes each year. This year that challenge was titled orbs. It is a cluster of towers. Who's got the tower?
TEXT> The cluster of towers of varying diameters which have different orbs or falls, wiffle balls of varying sizes, and golf balls, and their sea perch. There, Rove has to activate the levers,  which will release balls.  They have to capture the balls, carry the balls to a designated area, and release the balls. Both of those challenges are timed. A third component for the national competition is an electronic poster that actually is being sent down tomorrow night. It has to be in by midnight on Friday. Judges will judge that prior to our arriving,  they have no visual of of the various teams. And in that poster, the students communicate to the judges what they have learned social skills, technical skills and knowledge of physics, mathematics and so forth. And we have we have a wonderful other mentor, Jeff, over here, who has helped a great deal with the physics and mathematics portion. So there's Jeff and his C perch. Sure. So I will turn this over to the students. Now, the high school team who will soon be in Baton Rouge. Do you.
NEXT> Allison: Need help?

[8380-258] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (cluster also absorbs some crosstalk fra | 2016-05-04
PREV> Allison: Thank you.
TEXT> Just chose to go that here you are in this century, in this time and, you know, putting yourselves together. And here we are looking at the fact that, you know, a brilliant group of young people to put their minds together to say, well, we can study after school to watch this.
NEXT> Unidentified: Like.

[8380-267] Pam |  | 2016-05-04
PREV> Allison: Thank you.
TEXT> All for your time and for maneuvering your schedule. And if any of you are interested in coming down and seeing the team practice, we are at the pool tomorrow. Our drive times will be from 3:00 to 430. The kids will come over after school, but we have to get all the apparatus set up in the water. So you wouldn't see much before 3:00. We will be there every Monday and Thursday for. Well, we have five more sessions. So this week and then for the following two weeks. We will be there. Drive time would be from 3 to 430. We have to be out by five for swim lessons, so we kind of have to work around. But the community center has been very gracious and giving us a piece of the pool. And we're very, very grateful for that because it would be very hard to practice without the pool. So thank you again.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well done. Thank you. No such luck. So just in time. Oh.

[8380-282] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: it is not it's showing that we have a lot of room for improvement in these areas. Number of students enrolled in AP classes. Again, we have those numbers have increased significantly since 1314. But 178 in Bedford. Yeah, they've got a population of 1400s.
TEXT> We have to take that into account 12.6%. So when you're looking even at the percentages, we're down at 11.1. So these were all factors that the committee looked at to say what's going on with us and comparing it to our sister, some of our sister schools. When you look at the second graduation rates and post-graduation plans, again, compared to these other eight schools, our graduation rate 69.3  lowest in that column, only 36% identified as going on to four year colleges and only 20 little over 20% entering less than four year institutions. Early exit and dropout rates. On the third page,  we are second to the bottom. Effing is at the bottom of this particular list. But, when we look at annual early exit percentage, this is where the numbers are bad. When they're high and we're at 2.21%, meaning that these are our students, nine dropouts, which is the highest number compared to the other eight. So just to show you some data, and I thought it was valuable for you to actually see the schedules themselves. And I'm not going to take your time going over these, but some of them are true a B schedules. Some you'll see, for instance, looking at because I just want you to know what that means when you look at Bedford High School and you'll see handwritten in there, they have red and silver days.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: That's their way of saying an a, B day. They just call them red and silver days. And Adnoc has a true a B as well. And Sanborn is not.

[8380-284] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: be done better, what could we tweak, where could we go from here? Still were limited because of the way we're connected with the tech center. So, you know, that's kind of the overall and this was the compelling data that led us to say.
TEXT> And, and do these reflect just the schedule? No, no, no set of data is is due to one indicator. There's a lot of things that go into these numbers, including, you know, our homeless and our poverty rates. But having said that, and when we talk about Linda and talking about no excuses, I truly believe that any student given the right environment and the right supports is capable of achieving anything. And I do not believe that our students are any less capable than the students of Campbell. Bow, Plymouth, Epping, Monadnock. Sanborn cannot are Bedford in adapting to an A B schedule. If they can do it, our kids can do it. Now, having said that, you heard what Nate said and you heard what Angelica has said, and especially this senior and junior class, they're caught in the in-betweens there, that those two classes that we knew were going to get crunched in this change over. And Marian can speak to this as well. And we've had a conversation about that. We also knew as a committee, and it was very well articulated, that there is no schedule that can be assessed after one year, certainly not after six months, that 3 to 4 years of seeing one complete high school cohort go through is really what's needed to be able to longitudinally say, this is what we can say is affected by schedule.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: This is what we can say is affected by teaching staff, by poverty, by this, by that. So it's very early in the game. It's very premature to say what

[8380-289] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I agree with. You mentioned the Owls program, but it didn't affect your scheduling. However, I also heard the tech center affected your scheduling, so I'm a little confused because aren't they all programs of the school system? Correct? I mean, the program.
TEXT> It's not a tech program. It's in here. It's in this building. But owls is actually, an all in a sense, it's part of our alternative program. So Owl students come for two sessions, one session, either a morning session or an afternoon session. They are juniors or seniors. They are students who are in that program because traditional instruction at Stevens hasn't worked for them. It hasn't been successful for them.  And so they do Odyssey where learning supervised with staff here. And then they have a work study portion to their day. So they're here from 730 to 10. And then they go off and do their work study. And then the afternoon session comes in from 11 to 130. And so it's a separate alternative learning program for 30 of our students that just happens to be physically housed in this building, but doesn't run the schedule that the the tech center does, like HVAC and plumbing, carpentry, you know.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Still considered students of the school. Yes. Graduating with the school during the school year.

[8380-321] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Cory LeClair: Good question.
TEXT> Marian and I, that's an interesting component to look at for these other schools to see if they do. And it doesn't mean that students at Stevens can't take a college class, because, I mean, there's still the Saturday classes, there's the evening classes, but in the A, B schedule, those during the school day offerings at River Valley are now reduced for students on an A B schedule. So she's very right about that. But that's a very good point, because those kids who were coming in ready to take algebra two, often ran out of math classes to take by end of junior year. And then they sat there senior year with no math left to take. So that was another issue we was trying to address.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[8380-326] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: years, my reading of that is that that four year requirement can be met in blocks. It is not for years, but if I'm wrong, I'd like to see that. But my reading of that standard is it is not four years, it's four credits.
TEXT> Now the word credit is nowhere used in the RSA. It says yes, students need to take math in every year of their high school. That's how.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I read it. Going back to Linda, someone that was near and dear to me, she to finish her comments on that, she felt that the a b was an

[8380-350] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: So in our Ryan, I just.
TEXT> Semantic thing that I think is really important, especially for the public and parents we talk about, we use the word block. And I think that's confusing. So block is when we're talking, you know what? We have a block right now we're in a block. There's 75 minute block classes on an A, B alternating day schedule versus  the 4x4 block. They're both block schedules. But we're we're talking often as if one was a block and one wasn't. So I think it's really important that if you're talking about that seven period, 45 minute or skinnies that run through your year of 45 minutes, those are skinnies. And then when you're looking at these larger blocks of instructional time, whether it's in a 4x4 or an A, B, they're all blocks. And I feel it's important to clarify that because the committee saw the benefits of maintaining block, because everything that we know about 21st century learning, which you saw with these kids on the robotics team, is that in order to get to critical thinking and the kinds of skills that these kids need in order to be successful in the 21st century, workplace is time.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: You need time for discussion and depth into the curriculum, and to have those periods of time where you're not just skimming, like I say, like a Jesus bug over

[8380-351] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: know about 21st century learning, which you saw with these kids on the robotics team, is that in order to get to critical thinking and the kinds of skills that these kids need in order to be successful in the 21st century, workplace is time.
TEXT> You need time for discussion and depth into the curriculum, and to have those periods of time where you're not just skimming, like I say, like a Jesus bug over your curriculum every day. By the time in a 45 minute block you get in, you take your attendance. Now you down to 40 minutes. By the time you settle in and you do an introductory activity, you're down to 30 minutes. There's not that time for that in-depth attack of the curriculum that we know is what's needed for these kids to get those kinds of skills. So I think it's really important to just semantically separate when we talk block versus the type of block. And that's really the distinction 4x4 versus a B.
NEXT> Unidentified: So Patrick, first of all.

[8380-356] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Just to, a couple of questions. One, just something that I guess for into, I guess Nate being able to take certain classes. This is so much of the block schedule, but can they get an override to a class if they if need be.
TEXT> Right. So thank you for asking that question. And that's what I'm going to take a forensic look at Nate schedule next year. Because first of all when the schedule was built, first time out of the gate, 88% of the students got what they asked for in their course selection forms. Charlie Gesner probably has that up to about 91% now as he is tweaking and as students start to shift as their  guidance counselors now say, oh, these seven kids didn't get that course and I have to find another course for them to take. And that fills up. Not to mention your Add drop period, which will be a week long next year. And in those first six days, students will decide this classes. And for me, or I need to not be in a general, I want to be in a P, or there's that shift that will happen. Seats will open up in classes here, seats will get filled in classes there.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So really the opportunity to tweak one schedule extends all the way into mid-September of next year. So there's there's other opportunities to ensure that Nate, first of all gets

[8380-365] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: one of the differences that we, that we. So I guess I get confused so that a lot of schools that really they only need to be taking was it a six credits or six classes classes through the year. But we kind of require.
TEXT> So the state requires 20 credits state. The state minimum requirement is 20 credits to graduate from a a public high school. We have said at Stevens that we feel the minimum is 23 credits, and it needs to be made up of these requirements. We then said, for those students who are knowing to be college bound, want to align with New Hampshire State Scholars requirements, we feel that the diploma with distinction is a 27 credit. And that's the other benefit in in I. Again, mathematically, if a student, a high flying student, were able and willing to take eight classes every one of their four years, there's a 36 credit capability in four years, leaving plenty of breathing room for failure or not taking eight classes. It it makes it easier, much easier to attain those 27 credits and meet all those four years of those four disciplines, three years of a language which many top colleges are now requiring, get those in and still have adequate room for electives, which we know are extremely important for our students to make sure they have access to the arts and music and the theater. So that's the other piece. You can't accomplish that number of credits on a seven period day.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[8380-388] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (cluster also absorbs some crosstalk fra | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Okay. So you're almost to the end of your first year with an A, B and you've asked I, I just want to make sure I'm right. I'm hearing that you still have other courses though. It's like you've kind of balanced out the kids. There's that are kind of finishing up with an older schedule kind of thing, or so that I understand that the transition, you couldn't just go in and go, boom, everybody has to do this.
NEXT> Unidentified: Correct.

[8380-394] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (cluster also absorbs some crosstalk fra | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Of time.
TEXT> And then also show positive influence under it. The fact that those those young people stood there tonight and said we decided to learn how to Skype together was the most impressive thing  because they're using the technology that's there. They're not saying we can't do it, it's too much.  They're saying, well, it is a lot, but let's figure out a way to do it, which is the mindset that I'd like to think that every single person could come out of school with. So my.
NEXT> Unidentified: My.

[8380-443] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Chris Irish: And then we have that conversation with the teachers, the instructors, the students, the board, whoever. And we have the data say it's working. It's not working. But to stop it now, just because we don't like it and we want to resist change it.
TEXT> We have an opinion one way or the other. That to me is shortsighted as all get it. We just don't know what we don't know. We we suffer from compound ignorance right now. We don't want we don't know what we don't know. And we won't know until we collect the data. So anything short of getting through that process and having real data, whether or not it's helping or hurting our kids, I don't think we're doing our.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Jobs, although I would I would disagree. About some data. I think it was it's pretty apparent that the 4x4 was not working.

[8380-449] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Chris Irish: You know.
TEXT> That was failing our students miserably. Someone doing fine. Some were selling, but I think too many were being left behind. And I think that's what the data showed.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Going backwards will definitely send us backwards. There's no doubt in my mind about.

[8380-472] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - addressed as 'Brant' [849]  | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> But if we had an expectation of our students and student accountability, there should have been 39% of that 11th grade class should have been repeating 11th grade English. And I think that that's something that needs to be addressed, that a schedule change isn't going to fix, that. We need to change the culture and the perception that we're measuring that that failure, that a student failure is somehow a failure of the teacher. We have to get kind of past that and get teachers. All right, with the idea that 39% of their class is going to fail, and they should not be worried about their job. If they can show that 39 that they did their department, because I think that's the bigger problem that we're facing right now. It's not this schedule bit the schedule. I think it's in place. I don't know where we've decided it's going to stay in place. It's been a nice discussion we've had, but at the end of the day, I don't think it's going to change. It's a discussion item and if we're really want to make some strides forward, looking at what was presented by doctor when we need to really look at this idea of grade level, grade level academic expectation and hold the students to it.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Absolutely. I couldn't agree more.

[8380-480] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: Say now, so let's just.
TEXT> But whatever that is, whatever the test is, we shouldn't be comparing it. Then make an assumption that if the majority of the kids do bad on SATs, even if that's a bad one, because that counts. But any test that's driven by, well, no, but any test that's driven by the state, I'm not going to compare to our teachers and their abilities to teach, because  unless that test has some impact on that kids education and whether they pass or fail and get out of high school, they are not going to care. And I'm not going to hold my teachers accountable to a kneecap or a map or whatever they want to call it, because they are absolutely irrelevant. And it's strictly a financial mechanism for the state to withhold money. Right. That's my speech.
NEXT> Unidentified: Can I please.

[8380-566] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: that there is not a teacher I would willing to be to put money on it, that if they, a parent, wanted to talk to them, that they would not stay till 430, 5:00, or whatever they needed to do to speak with that parent.
TEXT> I agree with that. And I better go from a from another experience side of mine. I wholeheartedly support administration is proposing because that's what I pay them to do. I'm not an educator. I'm sure not qualified to digest this and figure it all out. Solve the world's problem. That's a but I will say this about parent teacher conferences. The ones that I went to and we went to every single one of them for 12 years with Ashley to a day that we went. There was never more than maybe three parents that were in those conferences, and it was usually the kids doing the best in the class. So my my opinion of parent teacher conferences, I applaud the effort. I think we need to keep throwing it out there. But to me, the bone we're trying to throw it isn't to the teachers, it's to the parents. I don't know what it takes to get parents involved in the kids education, but but I agree with Becky. I don't think for one second there's a teacher that would ever turn down the parents request.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: Do you really think a teacher was a full day of instruction, or how would you prepare the conference? And if we say, okay, we're going to give the union

[8380-571] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (cluster also absorbs some crosstalk fra | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Wondering.
TEXT> Conferences are very important and I think that we should be all working together to get the community,  families, parents more involved in them. And and I'd like to see it happen someday where we're bragging about how  the parent.  We have 100%. Henry.  You know, wouldn't it be great? So I, I, I, I want to support anything for the teachers to make it better, anything for the parents to make it better for the children.
NEXT> Unidentified: All in favor? Aye, aye.

[8407-12] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (calls to order and runs agenda and votes | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brent Ferland: As presented.
TEXT> Second. Just a couple of changes. Or one that I saw. Third page, first paragraph where it talks about the grant. I believe that was 25,000. About 2500. And that's that's all I've got. This one here. All in favor?  Aye. Opposed? Get our student representatives report. Yes.
NEXT> Unidentified: For the grand march and prom. It was a beautiful event, and our students had a wonderful time with DJ Colin Egan providing the musical entertainment. Congratulations to Steven Bosnich,

[8407-13] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School student representative to the board | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: couple of changes. Or one that I saw. Third page, first paragraph where it talks about the grant. I believe that was 25,000. About 2500. And that's that's all I've got. This one here. All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Get our student representatives report. Yes.
TEXT> For the grand march and prom. It was a beautiful event, and our students had a wonderful time with DJ Colin Egan providing the musical entertainment. Congratulations to Steven Bosnich,  Alison New,  Matt Page and Andrew Friend for their win on April 2nd at the Regional Robotic Competition and best of luck at the National Robotics Competition in Louisiana. This weekend, freshmen are taking maps test this week and juniors took the knee cap science text this week. Our students did a great job practicing and representing shows at the Seat Belt Challenge and Concord. On May 27th, guidance will be taking juniors to Keene State College for the NEA CAC  College Fair, where over 50 colleges and universities will be represented. Mr. Hardys for economic classes are working on their final project, which is a monthly budget project requiring students to find a job, determine taxes, health and dental assurance, pay rent, utilities, insurance, buy a car with insurance and host of other living expenses. Mr. Hardy's geography and new students are creating Community Atlas projects, in which a single pair of students identify a geography based community. Issue projects range from illegal dump sites to government subsidized housing, and from manufacture and service sector facilities to alcohol use throughout the nation. On May 7th, the band choir musical theater class competed in festivals in the park.
NEXT> Unidentified: The musical theater competed in the show choir category and took an excellent rating with a score of 88. This was the first time the musical students have ever competed

[8407-18] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (calls to order and runs agenda and votes | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Thank you. Any questions for our student representative? Thanks a lot.  Superintendent's report.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Thank you. Good evening. I'm going to be brief. We have quite an agenda tonight. Talking about our students, and talking about the as measured by our students achievement as

[8407-19] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Any questions for our student representative? Thanks a lot. Superintendent's report.
TEXT> Thank you. Good evening. I'm going to be brief. We have quite an agenda tonight. Talking about our students, and talking about the as measured by our students achievement as a result of our faculty's very hard work.  Today, I had the opportunity with Pat Berry and Kathleen and Cory LeClaire to sit down and have a light lunch with  our graduating seniors. Students who  volunteered were selected to participate  in a dialog that lasted approximately two hours. And the whole theme of this was.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: To.

[8407-22] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: been quite a bit of concern, especially Flint, Michigan, regarding the quality of water. And so, Mr. Saint-Pierre sent Stephen Holt, an email of attached a new report that was sent out by the New Hampshire Department of and EPA about lead in the water.
TEXT> This is a big issue around the country, and they are trying to educate everyone on the causes. Fortunately, we are ahead of the curve in Claremont. And he added the test results for our records that proves the Claremont schools have lead exposure well below levels that would require action. And he closes by saying your past upgrades and school renovations have eliminated the lead issues. So there's another. Another example of the community supporting the schools, supporting the renovation and  our upgrades with our schools, and how it benefits the quality of our water, as well as the wellness of our students. So I just wanted to share that publicly. And I think it's another example of  of the city of Claremont and the departments of the city of Claremont working hand in hand with the school district. We are partners and we do have the same objectives, really, as measured by students, as measured by residents, as measured by the community itself. And last, there is a two sided green sheet. Kathleen Bonnell invited Arcadia five faculty to meet in  elementary school yesterday afternoon.  And the whole purpose was to gather information and to, in essence, empower our faculty regarding this year and to help establish, areas that need attention to help establish our future priorities.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But if you look at both sides of this, this represents the work that has been going on in our elementary schools with the leadership of our principles, the hard

[8407-24] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: returns are diminishing if you try to impress with the long list. But in essence, it's not realistic or sustainable working with students in our faculty. So I just want to emphasize that the plans for next year continue the momentum our teachers have started.
TEXT> And I want to repeat, our teachers have started. We're moving in the direction we're moving because of our teachers dedication, commitment and professionalism. Remain focused on current curriculum development and instructional strategies. Protect time and focus from new or distracting initiatives that protecting our priorities. You know, a successful school district doesn't have a new initiative every other month may sound great if you're interested in public relations. If you're interested in education and student achievement, you focus with deep implementation, identifying the priorities and constantly monitoring our students success and how we respond to that success or lack of success. So I just wanted to brag a bit about our K to five teachers.  There's also many initiatives with our 6 to 8 teachers and 9 to 12 teachers. But tonight I because of yesterday's experience, and I had the opportunity to thank our colleagues for their hard work. I wanted to at least share with you and the community.  And my hope is in the future we'll have more opportunities where faculty, where administration and students will be part of school board meetings, because I have a lot to say, but I'm willing to bet that the community will listen more carefully to our students.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Great. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions for the superintendent? Good. We'll open up for citizens comments. Anybody for citizens comments? Move on to your discussion items Stevens High School

[8407-26] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Great. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions for the superintendent? Good. We'll open up for citizens comments. Anybody for citizens comments? Move on to your discussion items Stevens High School life skills program.
TEXT> I'm very pleased to welcome  our our our students as well as teachers to the podium.   I this is a classic example  of of bragging about our students and their accomplishments and having the community learn more about our students and our dedicated teachers. So welcome.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Thank you. And tonight we have a couple of students with us, as well as one of the teachers in the Life Skills program. So I'd like to introduce Ben

[8407-27] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat ... is going to b | 2016-05-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: very pleased to welcome our our our students as well as teachers to the podium. I this is a classic example of of bragging about our students and their accomplishments and having the community learn more about our students and our dedicated teachers. So welcome.
TEXT> Thank you. And tonight we have a couple of students with us, as well as one of the teachers in the Life Skills program. So I'd like to introduce Ben King and also Emily Ruth and their teacher Mike McCusker. And Mike can speak to you a little bit more about the life skills program, but we're nearing the first year of the program being in Stevens High School. And just for from my personal observation, it's been fantastic having them in the building. Our students have gotten so much from having these kids there all the time. And what I've seen is these guys and they can speak to it, but they've been able to just be involved in so many of the day to day activities at Stevens, and it's just been wonderful having them there all the time. So I'll let Mike speak to a little more of the details of the program. But and these are two of our best students, and they put on a mean lunch and a really awesome breakfast. So there you go.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And before.

[8407-32] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (calls to order and runs agenda and votes | 2016-05-18
PREV> Mike McCusker: I was not this is my first year with Stevens. Okay.
TEXT> So how about the students?
NEXT> Mike McCusker: They've been here their whole career.

[8407-39] Mike McCusker | Teacher, Stevens High School Life Skills program (introduced 'their te | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Great. Yes. Yeah.
TEXT> I think some of it's been to ease of having some of our students also be in general education classes. Okay. I think it's a little easier where they're in that in the high school building. You know, when they were here, I don't know how it worked, but I do know that it has been easier for that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Be a better transition between classes.

[8407-41] Mike McCusker | Teacher, Stevens High School Life Skills program (introduced 'their te | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Be a better transition between classes.
TEXT> A lot easier. We've we've had some kids who are able to actually get out and navigate a loan to generalized classes. So that's been some good successes for those students. I know Emily his she's in parenting right now. Yeah. She takes the parenting class. Ben took Pete Ferland woodworking class the first semester. So, there's been a lot of good successes in those those terms.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any other questions?

[8407-50] Mike McCusker | Teacher, Stevens High School Life Skills program (introduced 'their te | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: We mostly feed people.
TEXT> We feed people. So we do a, a weekly mail offering. We send an email out to staff in high school and saw,  the kids do all the research. They typically choose the meals with coaching. They look for recipes.  They make the shopping lists. We go shopping, they do the shopping.  Then it's all hands on deck for preparation and cooking the mail and then delivering. So it's been pretty successful. We feed about 15 people a week.  And we just we have a great time with it. It's also opened up  some opportunities to prepare items for the continuing ed when they're doing training.  This Friday we're cooking an extra 15 well, sandwiches, but doing an extra 15 meals for training in the PD center. So the kid's been working really hard. Every day we've got a group that goes and helps with garbage after lunch, which has helped with the maintenance staff some. So, I think it's been a very positive experience for the kids to be in the high school building.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It's great. It's great to hear.

[8407-58] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Academic academic achievement goals. The progress reports.
TEXT> There are many ways of that. The community or others can measure a school district. And too often it's done by state mandated assessments that are publicized. But  I'm very interested and have invited and continuing from last year,  our administrative leaders and staff to talk about other measures and to talk about the achievement of our students and also some of the challenges of our students, which is not a bad thing to talk about if we have a plan to address that. I'm going to invite our our K to five administrators first.  I know that one has a has a student they need to attend to afterwards. So I'd like to welcome, Melissa Lewis and Dan Sherry and Mike Lansing, who is completing his first year as principal of Bluff Elementary School. So thank you and welcome.
NEXT> Unidentified: Good evening.

[8407-61] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (introduced with Dan Cherry and Mike Lansi | 2016-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: new reading program for them this year. And so again, getting used to something new, figuring out how best to use it, as well as what you're going to hear from Mr. Lansing in just a moment, the work that's occurred for our writing curriculum.
TEXT> So these teachers deserve an enormous amount of credit for taking on so much. At one time last year, we began with the academic achievement, a goal, a academic achievement, goals. And as you'll see that there we have three. So again thank you. Pretty ambitious in terms of looking at reading, writing and math all at once. And so these were the goals that we started with. And we recognized that within each of these goals, there's a lot of action items that have to occur for staff to feel successful and for students to show success. And so some of the things that I just mentioned to you in terms of program implementation were part of the action steps that we have begun and continue to work with. Other steps include refining our practices with some of those new curriculum programs, as well as the work you're going to hear about tonight in writing. So some incredibly lofty goals, but with great purpose and with great intent, because for for our kids, there's nothing that we won't do for them.  So Dan Cherry is going to talk to you a little bit about where we were last year. For those of you that weren't here to hear kind of what we did in the area of math with that fluency, great.
NEXT> Mike McCusker: So. We'll just.

[8407-63] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Mike McCusker: So. We'll just.
TEXT> Report what some of our big takeaways were from last year. First of all, addition to multiplication has been acquired by most of our students  more quickly  than subtraction and division  that, as we went through and started collecting data and had these probes, we have these 50 question,  factual and C probes that we have a time of two minutes to try to measure proficiency against. And the more we were doing this, and the more we continued to look at data, we started asking questions. So for example, should oh, what is proficient? Is it 50 out of 50 if we haven't taught it yet? Is it a percentage out of 50 in the first quarter. And then that percentage changes the second quarter and then it changes the third until the end goal is 50 out of 50. Most of the Common Core standards are written as. By the end of grade X this is the accomplishment. So how do you accurately report progress as a student making decent progress in that first ten weeks of school against that standard? So the two challenges that the two arguments that are out there is should you have quarterly increasing raising the bar recorder,  or should you always be reporting against the standard?
NEXT> Dan Cherry: And then again, we have to take into consideration our all those concepts taught. When are they taught? If you look, the Common Core standards break down at certain grade

[8407-69] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Dan Cherry: question if they got 45 out of 50 facts right. Do you know your math facts and is that proficient or is 50 out of 50 really what it means to be proficient? This is all these are all the conversations that are coming up.
TEXT> You know, again, sometimes you might say, well, you guys are really overthinking this. But when you look at it, individual child and you're starting looking at their data and you want to help them improve, these are the kinds of questions that come up. So some considerations, we know that we have students who have processing speed errors. We know that we have kids with working memory errors. We know that we have people who have OT students who have OT issues. And again, can a verbal answer be accepted as representing a kid's ability to perform? We're also we know. We already know because what we're seeing our kindergartners do the impact of all day kindergarten. As we are getting all this momentum in this district. And as the levels and the data are going to prove out everything that's happening, it's going to be inevitable that this town made one of their greatest investments when they moved to all day kindergarten, because the things that our kids are doing now in kindergarten, you know, we were six months into first grade before, the skills that they're showing us now.
NEXT> Dan Cherry: Wow. So, we'll be able to show better after this fourth quarter, how attacking these looking at the structure, giving kids different opportunities to demonstrate what they know and and

[8407-71] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Dan Cherry: back and try to look at last year's cohort versus this year's cohort with our data. And that's the I think that's our math fact part. Do we want to break it up there. Are there any questions around just that in particular please, Michelle.
TEXT> Do you allow the children to actually pick? I know you said you did the strips where it went one way or the other way.  Is there are you allowing them to kind of almost pick? I think it's great that you're finding different ways to hit the same target. I just wondering, are are you just saying, okay, you're going to have because, you know,  or do they come up and say, for example, with the flashcards?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Sure.

[8407-74] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Are they able to do the flashcard as opposed to the test itself?
TEXT> Well, like I said, that's what we're finding. We're finding individuals have individual skills and strengths. Yeah. And so again with the consultant that we're working with, he suggested that we offer both ways and start to look at what are the what do the kids want to gravitate towards. So we we gave them ten problems at a time with no time limit. So we took the sheet. We didn't use the exact same ones because we're trying to maintain the integrity of each of those quarterly probes. But, you know, ten, ten, ten and ten. And again, some kids could just knock out ten and ten and ten that like that. But that page of 50, as soon as they got stuck, they just everything panicked, really panicked. So, it is about trying to differentiate, learn their what their styles are. Help them understand how best to attack that. And that's learning right? Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8407-88] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination: Rapp, Pierc | 2016-05-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: Based on the feedback we received from teachers yesterday, we're planning on a model where once a month we get together, cross district to work on, curriculum and these types of conversations.
TEXT> Just a quick question. Do we have an idea as far as what we're looking at for grade level performance in the factors? I mean, I know the grades not done yet, but those kids going from second to third grade is pretty much everybody where they should be with this or we still,  have, lacking in that from a kind of an overall picture. And if we are, what's our strategy? Because if they're not doing it from second to third, then third to fourth isn't going to be any better. Right, right.
NEXT> Dan Cherry: And what I think I think the evidence of generating the questions that we're doing, that's that's what's driving these questions coming up. Why why do we seem to be

[8407-98] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: More questions.
TEXT> Can I? And we're showing huge growth, and I, I I'd be happy to come back another time and show you the growth that bluff has had to be proud of that I think. Listen, one thing I got my little laser light there. Look, we all know that it is difficult for a kid to grow a grade and a half, two grades in a year. It's it's challenging. One thing that we have done that is smart is that when kids come in, they get a full year of a full day of education, knowing  that at January of this past year, our kids were at where they were at the end of the year. So they've had January until June 8th to show increased growth. And so I think, what are we going to do to help those kids grow? We're going to give them a much better start in this district than they've had previously. Hopefully getting them to to where they should be in grade one. Because if you have a big gap in kindergarten going to first, it's difficult to close that, going to second, going to third. So hopefully we can close in the beginning. We're in good shape. So that's for me. That's step one. That's a huge step in that in that direction.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Gotcha.

[8407-102] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Patrick Adrian: know, kind of how we're balancing out. Or is there a kind of kind of attention to, I think, students curiosity level? I think kind of more than just what they're able to perform and demonstrate, but sort of an inquisitiveness and interest in math.
TEXT> Your spot on. So that's one of our engagement is one of our themes for next year, right? I mean, we have that's you named it. That's exactly a huge piece of it. The other thing I will say is in our  math practices,  our models are really supposed to be driven at concrete, pictorial, abstract, looking at  a, you know, taking a first grader and asking them what, you know, six plus five is those symbols that's so abstract it means nothing. So we got to do a lot with cubes and manipulatives and grouping and re and shuffling and all that. And now all of a sudden things start to make sense. And then we have to understand that, when you, when you take a, a  di  six, you can turn it this way and it's still six. And if you brought it over here, it's still six, and you bring it down here, it's still six. And  a lot of our kids didn't have that. That's coming much more now they have that, six is part of them. They know that that's six and that will. And they can trust it when you don't have that experience. Every time kids see those, that pattern that we all know is six, they're going one, two, three, four, five, six because they don't trust it's not internal to them.
NEXT> Dan Cherry: Right. But one of the other shifts that we're making in our math program is all the way up and down the line is we are going to be using

[8407-104] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Dan Cherry: that's what we collectively across all the elementary schools. That's how we're going to start. That's the expectation now. It's not the great the the gifted. No. That's the expectation for everyone being able to solve real world relevant problems that make sense to them.
TEXT> If I may. You know, we've talked a little bit at the board level around our strategic action plan moving forward. We'll be working with with Mark Dolan. But there are three priority areas for the plan  and for our work moving forward. It's early learning, engagement and personalization because we recognize that the concern you raise is a real concern with our students. And so,  to some degree, putting our money where our mouth is and ensuring that that's part of  our plan moving forward to to talk further about a lot of the things that Dan and Melissa and Mike are referencing here.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thanks very. I was just listening and I like heard a lot of the issues that were concerning with if people haven't mastered the subject and have them even great

[8407-110] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> So I'm really excited to share with the writing program. A lot of good stuff is happening here. The writing program really started from scratch. Amanda Aarons is a consultant that the district hired to help us kind of organize, streamline and get everything going in the right direction. A writing committee was formed. They created a program literally from scratch. Of course, they had other templates to move from. They had the writings and and resources of writing experts. They were able to rely on others, but, they were able to kind of create something that worked for our kids. The theme, what do you Claremont kids need? What do they need? No one's going to know that better than a committee made of Claremont educators. So we had that really going for us, a real advantage for us here. Does it meet the Common Core standards? We know we have to meet those doesn't meet our kids needs while meeting the Common Core standards, the method we chose to use, we took the Common Core standards. We packed them into four really large, really lengthy writing tasks. Launching which started narrative, which was second opinion and informative. Those are the four big writing tasks kindergarten through fifth grade. They all took on. They took them on kind of different times. The general time was the same. You can think of it as quarter one quarter to quarter three, quarter four doesn't quite fit in that time frame.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: I think it's an easy way to think about it. Launching was important. It really helps set the tone for the program and help provide routines, help provide clarity for

[8407-112] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: what we would consider proficient. Really the big part of it is you want to make sure you have an identical pre and post assessment. It's difficult, as we all know, to judge how people do if you're if you're judging them on something different.
TEXT> So we want to make sure that in each of our four structures they have those same pre and post assessment that the kids could do. And so that we could have accurate look at that growth, opinion writing. And this is just for third grade. But this is just giving you an idea of how lengthy it is. There's about 11 lessons for third grade. You know, each one is different. 4th May have 12, 5th May have, you know, 14, kindergarten may have eight. But just to give you an idea of the length, the lessons take more than one day to complete. Sometimes two, sometimes three really depends on the pace of that class and the pace of how they're learning. Again, we don't want to move forward if they haven't learned what they need to. It's difficult to get to lesson two if they don't understand lesson one. Teachers, it's kind of again, the structure teachers used. They use produce lessons roughly three ish days per week. Again, that could just be one lesson, depending on how long it took them to do that. Teacher autonomy for the for the remaining day. So just a simple way to think about it.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday they had something that guided them. Thursday and Friday they had the autonomy to take what the kids were working on, kind of create and shift

[8407-113] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: used. They use produce lessons roughly three ish days per week. Again, that could just be one lesson, depending on how long it took them to do that. Teacher autonomy for the for the remaining day. So just a simple way to think about it.
TEXT> Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday they had something that guided them. Thursday and Friday they had the autonomy to take what the kids were working on, kind of create and shift and make their own lessons based off what they were doing those previous three days. It could, of course, go from Friday, Monday, Tuesday. But I think a Monday through Friday is an easy way to envision that structure. Each unit lasts roughly again, it can be a little longer, a little shorter, usually not shorter, but it's somewhere around 6 to 8 weeks. There's a lot of reasons it can go longer or shorter vacations,  how long it takes kids to do that? There are really hard set times where we want to give the pre and hard set times. We want to give the post so that the district is moving along together. That was really important and something that we all came up with together to make sure that, you know, a Disney art isn't stuck on on narrative when bluff has moved on to opinion or something like that. So we were all moving together at the same time and again, these dates and these times and these units were all created by that writing committee, again, from the ground up, from scratch, with Amanda Aaron's kind of helping us move forward, work.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: I think we're all really proud of students. One thing that was important students need one on one time with teachers. It's called a writing workshop. We want to make

[8407-114] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: that. So we were all moving together at the same time and again, these dates and these times and these units were all created by that writing committee, again, from the ground up, from scratch, with Amanda Aaron's kind of helping us move forward, work.
TEXT> I think we're all really proud of students. One thing that was important students need one on one time with teachers. It's called a writing workshop. We want to make sure that those kids get that time. They get that attention from an adult in the classroom. It could be a paraprofessional based off of their needs. It could be another adult in the room if we happen to provide extra help. But we want to make sure that they are getting one on one opportunities to learn from the adult so that they are getting those needs met and questions asked and questions answered at a level that they they need. The lesson structure, whole group, practice and then sharing that was kind of always the theme of our of our lessons. We want to make sure that we get the whole group lesson. We want to make sure the kids have practice. We want to make sure that they're able to share. And sharing could be peer to peer. It could be in front of the whole group. It can be a part of that one on one time with teachers. There's a lot of different ways to manipulate that, but we wanted to make sure in those three in the lesson structure, those three things were met.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: So where do you write in units? Just in case you want to check it out, go to source six. I know we all have been there. Curriculum is highlighted

[8407-116] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: here I want you to kind of see everything that we talk about. And then we're going to show you some writing work so that you see kids, what they look like kind of in the beginning pre assessment what they look like post assessment.
TEXT> So opinion writing this is the the third unit in kind of our four lesson structure or our four unit structure.  Again 11 lessons. It's vertically aligned. And what does that mean. It means if this is the third unit it aligns with the second. And the fourth unit in third grade would then align with second grade as well as fourth grade, so that it kind of flows together so that it makes sense. And it's lots of fun. The kids really liked it. There was a lot of growth. They were excited. They opinion they got to take on topics that they found interesting. The kids really enjoyed it. This on the right hand side is the prompt. It's something that helps the teachers kind of guide the pre assessment or the lesson. So grading how does it look. There's kind of two ways to do it. This one here is really common. You can find it on the website. It talks about introduction opinions development details closure. It talks about what is not yet proficient, what is proficient and so forth. So it gives the teachers an idea of what to look for for these kiddos, that you can accurately, accurately grade them so that maple a Disney art and bluff.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: You know that kids are being graded on the same thing. So we're not really talking, but yet we are. We are grading everybody on the same thing. So I

[8407-117] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: closure. It talks about what is not yet proficient, what is proficient and so forth. So it gives the teachers an idea of what to look for for these kiddos, that you can accurately, accurately grade them so that maple a Disney art and bluff.
TEXT> You know that kids are being graded on the same thing. So we're not really talking, but yet we are. We are grading everybody on the same thing. So I think we thought that was important. And so we we made sure that was added over here as a teacher checklist that used the least for this unit. It just helped as a teacher created a checklist that just helped the teacher provide the assessment, provide some of the structure, make sure that, you know, make a tick in the box, so to speak. So they made sure everything was being,  spoken of. So writing prompts. Right. So so cat or dog was the one for writing and which would you rather have as a pet? Geez, I don't know. I don't know a lot about cats. I don't own a dog. They scare me. Yikes. If that's the case, each teacher gets the same. Writing prompted the class to talk about what? So they have the same information to pull from. So one, you know, one's on a cat, one's on a dog. These kids have information to pull from. It's at their reading level. It's at a level that they understand. You know, this is a part of the whole group discussion. A discussion goes on in there.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: And so the kids have a really good, you know, they start formulating ideas in their brain and they move forward. So I just want to kind of give you

[8407-118] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: know, one's on a cat, one's on a dog. These kids have information to pull from. It's at their reading level. It's at a level that they understand. You know, this is a part of the whole group discussion. A discussion goes on in there.
TEXT> And so the kids have a really good, you know, they start formulating ideas in their brain and they move forward. So I just want to kind of give you an example so that they do the writing prompts. They get this stuff and bang, they go right into a pre assessment. And it's really I wasn't sure how it was going to be in here. You guys. This is the pre assessment here. This is a pretty solid kid. This is this is above proficient. This little girl. She's an excellent writer. But if we were to really go into this free assessment and then the post assessment in the end is different. And even though this girl is a really good writer, she doesn't really introduce her topic. Well, she doesn't state her opinion. Well, she doesn't really list a lot of reasons to support that, which are all things that we want in the proficiency for grade three. And,  you know, and if you if you get  this PowerPoint to yourself and you read this again, I don't know if it's shared and if it is, I encourage you to kind of read the difference.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: You can tell it. She really improves and it's excellent. And she does a wonderful job below proficient. This is a much better example. You can see there's no capitalization

[8407-119] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: we want in the proficiency for grade three. And, you know, and if you if you get this PowerPoint to yourself and you read this again, I don't know if it's shared and if it is, I encourage you to kind of read the difference.
TEXT> You can tell it. She really improves and it's excellent. And she does a wonderful job below proficient. This is a much better example. You can see there's no capitalization random periods. There's a capitalization here. It's not smooth. It's not the way it should be done. He really improves it. Although he still says below proficiency his his Edith a much better job, right? I mean just looking here. Capital D Weller tasty. Much better spacing. He starts to include commas. He starts to he starts to include reasons. Appropriate punctuation to the grade three level. Good stuff is happening. And again, if we go way back, that is all being judged based on this. That is found right there. And the same thing that we all have at every school that's supposed to be given to everybody together. So it's the same, it's symmetrical, it's very nicely done.  And that's how we know that these kids are below and above, because we use that chart that we have.  So we're going to go into  talking about a couple examples here. And we're going to give you an example from kindergarten all the way through fifth grade. So here's a really good kindergarten example, right?
NEXT> Michael Lansing: I'm not sure what they're saying. Right. And it's cute and fun. And they made a really good attempt. I like something I'm not sure. Right. And I think it's

[8407-121] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: So it's a great example in the launching unit. Right? Right. In the beginning first grade writing in September all the way to April. We have a lot going on here. Again, it's really easy to tell what's going on. So things to look for.
TEXT> How's the punctuation? How's the spelling and grammar. It should be appropriate to that grade level to first grade. It's really easy to see some things that pop out spacing, capitalization, phonetic words. Again looks much better. You can really read this one. My dog Burke went overseas, sees another dog and it's really well done. And you can really see the progression from kindergarten to first grade. It's very clear that these kids are improving. Grade two personal narrative I gave two examples here. We circled some of the problems with it. You could really see it got shorter. It got more appropriate. There's in grade two, you start to supply reasons, right? Why is my cat better than my dog? Why this? Why that? You start to use linking words that would be like also because, kind of expand those sentences, bring two sentences, these really short sentences you saw here. We're starting to expand them and link them in grade two. So they do a nice job of that. You're talking to periods exclamation points start from used here. A good example is here. This is this is a professional one. But it's not rushing me. You know that's a really good example of really appropriate punctuation.
NEXT> Unidentified: On the math problems. But you you get a good example. He here's a real soft.

[8407-125] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Make them.
TEXT> Make them look better. It's the same thing here, guys. We talked about grade three a little bit. But you know you're going to see you get your pre assessment and your post assessment. And it's just they're getting better. Here's grade four. Here's some things you want to look for in grade four. Put my notes quickly. Write a clearance reduction. You want an organized structure. You want facts that support the reasons it needs to again phonetically, really start to make sense. A lot more expansive linking words. The writing is just starting to look better. This is a this is a pretty good example. Even even the beforehand it meets kind of the third grade. So you can tell that that that that that that year to year growth is there. The second one is much better. It's even even looks better. It looks more organized there. That's a part of it to how does it look. How does it present.  Great. For this is an efficient one. We want to have video games. Should they have it? It was kind of a fun topic for the kids. Should they include video games in the library?
NEXT> Michael Lansing: Right. What's your opinion on that? That was the assignment here that fourth graders got to do. And and in this, this student did a nice job. And you see

[8407-138] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: It actually is moving into six through eight as well working with Amanda.
TEXT> This is this is the great way, I believe to really start seeing some of the, you know, the production of having the kindergarten and all day and with the math, I see the, the, the teachings, the change of mindset is that each child is an individual. Even though we have to teach a group of children in the school at one time in a class that you're you're becoming more individualized with each child's learning process. The strips of paper for the math is is incredible. If I'd had that, I might have been a little more successful with my time.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: I mean, there's a million ways to teach something, right? I mean, math is math is a really easy way to think about that, right? Because, you know, three times

[8407-139] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: in the school at one time in a class that you're you're becoming more individualized with each child's learning process. The strips of paper for the math is is incredible. If I'd had that, I might have been a little more successful with my time.
TEXT> I mean, there's a million ways to teach something, right? I mean, math is math is a really easy way to think about that, right? Because, you know, three times seven, there's a bunch of ways to think about that and solve it. And the strips of papers want or looking at it this way is another bar. Modeling is a real classic. One taught it at this level, but it is a strategy. And I think here you're talking about engagement. Isn't it fun to pick a topic that kids are engaged? And what fourth grader wouldn't be able to have an opinion on whether video games should be in libraries? Of course they will. They all love video games, right? So let's take advantage of that and let's throw it into something they care about so that they're going to be fired up. Like, you know what I want to tell about this? I have an opinion on whether this should be in here or not. And here's why. And that's a lot better than something that they have no interest in. And, and that's, that's our, our committee thinking ahead and saying, how am I going to keep these kids interested in this? They put together really good topics and really good, you know, units and lessons.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Is your committee just the gist of teachers or do you have outside like parents involved? Is it or is this committee that you've formed just teachers.

[8407-145] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: Yeah. But again led by, led by and directed by Amanda.
TEXT> Because there's a lot of my concerns are the emotional impact that especially with the Claremont School systems, that if the children that are moving constantly and having to go from one school to another school drastically. So what worked in one school, having the fact of knowing that  all three schools are providing the same curriculum  now in these teaching  models is, I think, going to make a huge difference emotionally for a.
NEXT> Unidentified: Child.

[8407-152] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brent Ferland: That's great.
TEXT> And I would just like to, beside Corey LeClaire, give another example  of our terrific students as Stevens High School. And these are the whoopie pies. This is not a paid commercial, but I'm. Just I'm just bragging about our students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Smelling really. Good about.

[8407-157] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: So it really is an exciting time. And when kiddos are angry at their principal because there's an assembly scheduled, I'll take the heat for that and understand that you know, deep down I'm cheering them on that they're excited by that.
TEXT> But those are the last slide because these are these are these are two important things. This is the most transparent work you will ever see to date at the elementary level. Every plan, every rubric, every prompt is online for anyone in the public to go and click on and see that's that's that's incredible. I challenge you to find districts in New Hampshire that will have that up there. And then I want piggyback on Melissa's. It's a amazingly odd, wonderful feeling to see kids enjoy writing. That's that's a little bit atypical over my entire career of you have kids who are writers. There are kids who are writing  and writing and want to write and want to share. And one of this, what that is creating, which is one of the hardest areas to get to in the writing prompts from the standards, is voice. They are sharing what's important to them, and that's writer's voice. And that is starting to come through at first and second grade. And that's it's and it's there are strategies to teach it, but the best way that voice comes through is natural, and it's happening naturally because our kids are writing.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And they're excited to share. I had a parent say to me, I answered the phone early one morning and said, so-and-so is coming to school today. I'm not really

[8407-159] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (introduced with Dan Cherry and Mike Lansi | 2016-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: many resources, and our teachers have had the support of Kathleen Bonnell throughout the year, as well as each other to kind of unpack that and say, so which of these components work best for which type of reader and all of those amazing conversations?
TEXT> The level of professional conversations that are occurring in our schools are simply amazing,  and each school has a slightly different way that they're going about that. But the essence is the same an enormous amount of professional conversation about improving instructional practices to improve the education that our kids are receiving in the growth that they see. So I'm going to leave with one final comment. And I get to because I'm last. And they didn't they didn't get to do that. So that's what I get for getting to go. Last second grader today, I had the privilege of him coming into my office and saying, sit down, you need to hear this. So I sat down. Hang on to your seat, Mrs. Lewis. I'm on it. I've got it. I have some news to share. Go for it. Now. This is a child who, at the beginning of the school year, was reading with one of our assessments at a level five significantly below grade level. You heard Doctor Goodwin speak about some of the data meetings and what that looks like when our teachers get together.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And again, all of our schools have them. They just look slightly different depending on the process we're using. We had conversation about this kiddo all year long. Kiddo, if

[8407-168] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (O'Neill: 'What Patrick was just talking | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: I.
TEXT> I,  I don't know, I don't I find that particular tests like very kind of stressful, like they're like S.A.T. style questions. And when they give you this reading passage and you're just struggling to stay awake with it because they find the driest, worst writing to do it, and then they give you these questions and that's what they're assessing them on. And I guess it would. So weekly testing, that's the kind of stuff I start worrying about is the volume when we're doing the, you know, where those kind of tests I mean the kids will get used to it. I don't know if I think kids should be getting used to that.  Is it really necessary that we're having to do weekly reading tests like standardized questions like that style?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Well, how about is that something that's being done?

[8407-179] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: I can take you back. Yeah.
TEXT> I mean, I tell you right now that I think this is absolutely extraordinary. The work that you're doing and  the collaboration between all of the schools is, is just such a huge, huge thing. First of all, secondly, my schooling was a traumatic experience as I was a severe dyslexic, so I struggled from the get go. So to hear that you're giving a strip test here or you're, you're, you're you're picking a video game question to make it more exciting or you're picking within the realm of what a child's interest are, rather than what the book says you should do. I commend every single one of you on all of your hard work, because it's showing. And my grandson hits Bluff School in September as a kindergartner, so I'm ecstatic.
NEXT> Unidentified: Good luck, say.

[8407-188] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'Paulette Fitzgerald, prin | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Well, thank you.
TEXT> Paulette Fitzgerald, principal at the middle school. And I have three colleagues this evening. I have Courtney Steele, who's a special education teacher at the middle school. And I also have our two guidance counselors, our school counselors, Felicia Harvey and Susan Taylor, who will be presenting again in a little while. So first, I would just like to start with congratulations  to our elementary colleagues for the hard work that that they are doing, because it's going to make our jobs easier in a few years as these students start to come up. So what you'll be seeing from us tonight is sort of a continuation of what we've been doing the last couple of years, really looking at data, really trying to make changes to meet the needs of our of our students. So, so.
NEXT> Unidentified: I guess we'll.

[8407-191] Courtney Steele | Special education teacher, Claremont Middle School (introduced by Fitz | 2016-05-18
PREV> Paulette Fitzgerald: us many challenges as well as a lot of opportunity. You know, when when you're going through something like this, sometimes some days it's good, some days it's really bad. But when you really examine things, it really becomes an opportunity to make some changes.
TEXT> And as a result of going through that, we've made some improvements over the past few years  with advisory. We've gotten an improved schedule. We have student led conferences. When we do the conferences at the beginning of the year. Those are really great to see the students get into this. We have an intervention block that has been evolving since it was put into place. We have got some improved transitions from five to fifth to sixth and eighth to ninth that you'll hear about later from Miss Taylor and Miss Harvey  and improved communication. And through it all, student achievement has always been the forefront. That's been our focus at CMS.
NEXT> Paulette Fitzgerald: So how do we monitor and respond to student achievement? We use a lot of data and different kinds of data. We use our map scores. And you've heard about

[8407-192] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'Paulette Fitzgerald, prin | 2016-05-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: got some improved transitions from five to fifth to sixth and eighth to ninth that you'll hear about later from Miss Taylor and Miss Harvey and improved communication. And through it all, student achievement has always been the forefront. That's been our focus at CMS.
TEXT> So how do we monitor and respond to student achievement? We use a lot of data and different kinds of data. We use our map scores. And you've heard about that earlier. We've we's Ames web. And we used that mostly to monitor our reading.  Kneecap when we had kneecap formative and summative assessments within the classroom, we use our behavior data, our attendance data. Also standards based instruction and assessment. We've been working a lot, you know, that that's been a big thing here. We've certainly  learned a lot, and we've been doing a lot with that, and differentiated instruction, trying to meet the needs of all of our students, and RTI response to instruction. And that's what you'll be hearing  about.
NEXT> Courtney Steele: More so with our RTI model. We have developed the intervention blocks that I was talking about earlier. It's been phased in over a period of three years, and we

[8407-193] Courtney Steele | Special education teacher, Claremont Middle School (introduced by Fitz | 2016-05-18
PREV> Paulette Fitzgerald: that that's been a big thing here. We've certainly learned a lot, and we've been doing a lot with that, and differentiated instruction, trying to meet the needs of all of our students, and RTI response to instruction. And that's what you'll be hearing about.
TEXT> More so with our RTI model. We have developed the intervention blocks that I was talking about earlier. It's been phased in over a period of three years, and we started with a focus on those students that were below the 20th percentile in reading. In math,  what we found is most of those students that were below the 20th in reading or in math, most of them were also below the 20th in reading. And so reading was our priority. And why is that? Well, 25% of our students, when we sat down and looked at the data, were below the 20th percentile. And that was really a a  shocking all moment when we were sitting there looking at those numbers. And we all just kind of went, oh my God.  And so that really hit home as to why reading was going to be our main priority and for that group.
NEXT> Unidentified: As well.

[8407-198] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'Paulette Fitzgerald, prin | 2016-05-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: About a year.
TEXT> Right. And that was about 100 of our students out of our approximately 400. So that was pretty shocking. So what did we do?  So using our all of our data students were grouped by need. And so that was part of our RTI slash data team, you know, looking at where the students, had those dips, where the students were not being successful. The groups were across grade levels. So we had some six seventh, eighth graders, sometimes in the same group because they were demonstrating the same need. The targeted groups below the 20th percentile were taught using one of three scripted programs, and our reading specialists at the time had found these programs for us to use. Students between the 20th and the 30th percentiles were they also used a scripted program?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[8407-200] Courtney Steele | Special education teacher, Claremont Middle School (introduced by Fitz | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Students with the math needs were also grouped and assigned to targeted math groups, the non targeted students. So those outside of the groups that we were looking at right. They were assigned to groups that focused on literacy and the nice to know standards. There's a lot of standards that we can't get in. I know doctor McGivern in the past has talked about our, you know, getting that target in the middle. And so the ones that are the nice to know level where the focus of some of these non targeted groups and we have been tracking data on all of our students, during that intervention block, it's a 45 minute period every single day every hand is on deck. Whether it's a teacher or a paraprofessional, every single one has a group of students that they're working with during that time.
NEXT> Paulette Fitzgerald: And Doctor Goodwin has been in the building during our intervention block. And he has said some of these groups are really small. Our targeted groups are very small. We're

[8407-203] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'Paulette Fitzgerald, prin | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. Okay.
TEXT> So the good news, after doing this for a while, we've discovered that 73% of the students who are in the targeted reading groups improved.  And some of that improvement was very dramatic. Some students made two years growth in in actually going from fall to fall to winter. So it was dramatic what we were seeing, you know, if we were to if we were to predict this is what we were predicting, this is what we were hoping would happen. So we take students with these great deficits. We focus on those deficits for 45 minutes every day. And we saw some amazing growth. This is.
NEXT> Unidentified: Me to you.

[8407-233] Courtney Steele | Special education teacher, Claremont Middle School (introduced by Fitz | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Three times a year. Yeah.
TEXT> And we've also been triangulating the data with other data points. So particularly when we're looking at doing the groups for the intervention block, we have the map data. And then we, we go to the next step and say, okay,  what else do we know about these students. So we may have a web data that we also look at. And if  if they don't match then we say okay so then let's get some input from that students classroom language our teacher and see where the problem is. What are the other factors at play here? Is this really what this student needs or should he be with this group? So we really take it and kind of analyze it to death almost.
NEXT> Paulette Fitzgerald: We do. And and it's the our data team is, we have very interesting, passionate meetings for sure. And so it's that passion is, is really exciting. And we presented

[8407-252] Felicia Harvey | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced [341, 415]; 'Sue | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> Essentially, our purpose with this presentation today is to explain all of the different things we do. And I think we do quite a bit to really help move our kids, both from fifth grade into sixth grade and our eighth graders into ninth grade, which are both huge jumps. For all of our kiddos. And and they get stressed out. But I think that we do a lot to kind of ease their mind and and I hope we do.  So this, like I said, is just kind of a quick overview.  We do a lot starting really early. I think we started in February this year, planning transitions. So hopefully that'll be relayed further along in our presentation.
NEXT> Susan Taylor: And these are pictures. Of our barbecue that has grown from about five. To I swear.

[8407-268] Susan Taylor | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced 'Felicia Harvey  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Felicia Harvey: level. It depends on, you know, their aspirations. And, it's it's it's a really good process. It takes a long time about the entire month of March for us to get through our eighth grade class. But we have a lot of fun with it.
TEXT> It's really a fun thing to do. It's one of them most enjoyable things we do. And then. We have  these we call these transition meetings with the elementary schools come up to us. They sometimes bring parents and students with them. We talk. Sometimes they have 504 or. We have three designated days for transition meetings next week  for  each school that's coming. And then we go to the ones that are scientists, because I have the end of the alphabet and beginning of the alphabet for the last names, and we sit down in our meetings and listen to, their needs and what they're going to be doing next year and eight to ninth. We have plans to meet next week, again next week. Our biggest week of the year. We're meeting with the high school team  to go over some of the same things on that end of our student. So.
NEXT> Felicia Harvey: So parent nights, we have a lot to do with the sixth graders. We have a parent night. It's going to be the same day as a road trip next

[8407-273] Susan Taylor | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced 'Felicia Harvey  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Felicia Harvey: the parents can see, during the parent barbecue or, you know, the barbecue. There's also tours given then, and typically we do go the, the high school puts on a parent night for our eighth graders. And we do try and join that as well.
TEXT> We'll say they the fifth to sixth grade parents are pretty nervous because they think middle school and it's time to move on. And then we get a few tears when the kids 8 to 9. So both transitions are challenging for parents.
NEXT> Unidentified: So this is our barbecue.

[8407-276] Felicia Harvey | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced [341, 415]; 'Sue | 2016-05-18
PREV> Susan Taylor: And the people that go to the barbecue are the six, the whole six. The the whole team of teachers go. The teachers, administration we go. And there's the over 150 people. Attended.
TEXT> Yes. Our student council is there for us as well. Yeah.
NEXT> Susan Taylor: So they get quite a few. Yes. Because student council like.

[8407-298] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat ... is going to b | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Oh.
TEXT> Marty called me. Five minutes before I came to the meeting, and she wanted the board very much to know. She was so proud of our juniors, who this week took the science kneecap because we still have kneecap for science, and we did it in the gym. And she just wanted the board to know how well behaved the students were, how focused on the test, how seriously they took it, how patient they were, if they were done earlier than some of the others, and they had brought a book and they had just hung out, and they were respectful of those students who were still working on the test. And I attribute a lot of it to the Skittles that we provided, because everybody knows Skittles makes everything better. But Karen really wanted everybody to know  that, and that it speaks to the message that we've been really trying to get out, that kneecaps the information that we get from it is really important because it helps us to inform how to better teach them. And while it doesn't go on their transcript and it doesn't become something that is advertised on a student by student basis, that it's important data for us to have so that we can make their education more meaningful to them. And they took it very seriously. So I just wanted to share that with you.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thanks.

[8407-333] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Please, Frank.' [392] -> [393]; | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Change the laws in order to make that happen?
TEXT> Some of the kids have very profound disabilities,  and we.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Can't.

[8407-337] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Them here. I'm not. That's not true. I think that if we put the right things in place and we work hard enough to figure it out, that we could keep children in our district and not ship them out.
TEXT> So a couple things. One is, Frank is correct that some of our children do have very profound disabilities and have disabilities that, we in public education would never be able to support, whether their health care needs or other medical needs of that nature. We would not be able to do that here. As you've heard from Pat in the in the recent months, we actually have,  created an alternative education program within the high school so that we can avoid sending students out to out of district placement. I believe we've technically even brought a student back from out of district placement. For those students who we can, with certain tweaks to our programing and certain supports put in place, we can provide them as good, if not better of an education here in district at a general cost savings. When we get into the nitty gritty of who and what and where and what's our policy for for testing, when we do receive a student from another district and become the district of the liability, I think that it would probably be prudent to schedule an additional conversation when Chris Bezos, the director of special education, can be at the table because he knows far
NEXT> Cory LeClair: more about special education than than I do. And I will continue to field questions. But eventually I'll get to a point where I really don't know. And that's not

[8407-361] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: So physical disabilities in a lot of cases, you know, placements and different things like that, additional services.
TEXT> Even if it's not physical disability. So so a few things, a few of the  basics around special education. One is there's no individual person who says,  you know, Frank Sprague needs an out of district placement. All of those decisions are done by a  team of people that represent educators, administrators, parents, related service providers like OTS, PT, speech, evaluators, school psychologists, and all of that. So every decision is made by a team. And the way  that I understand the special ed law is that a child needs to be in the least restrictive environment.  And so an out of district placement is typically a very extreme measure. And there's many of our students who are actually serviced in our schools in programs within our schools. For instance, we heard from a couple of them earlier today,  and the, the programs that they're in currently in our schools, we are considering the least restrictive environment for them. It ranges from being in a general education classroom where you walk in, and you wouldn't be able to tell that there were any disabilities to very specialized programing.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I think the other thing to consider is that when we have a family who moves from another community to our community, there's absolutely some lag time in terms of

[8407-362] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: that they're in currently in our schools, we are considering the least restrictive environment for them. It ranges from being in a general education classroom where you walk in, and you wouldn't be able to tell that there were any disabilities to very specialized programing.
TEXT> I think the other thing to consider  is that when  we have a family who moves from another community to our community, there's absolutely some lag time in terms of them moving here, getting registered, us understanding where they are currently placed, us connecting with their prior district, getting that I p information, reading the IP information, understanding it, figuring out where they are at in their process. With some of our homeless families, for instance, they are to us and gone out of our system before the paperwork ever even catches up with them.  And so, every child is considered on an individual case by case basis in terms of funding for these extreme cases, we are required by law to provide a free and appropriate public education for every child in the United States of America, every child.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And so if if a single child's version of a free and appropriate, appropriate public education requires an out of district placement, then that's what we as a community are

[8407-376] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: won't in my opinion. I want an IEP to be as, as far place so that that child has the best education, just like any other child and is visible to anyone in, in the the school system is just another kid doing coming in.
TEXT> And all of the different changes between kindergarten and now have definitely are going to make a huge difference with those children. Get to high school there. IEPs might even drop, but I just see such a large quantity. And I just want to understand how we can make a difference.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Do you think I mean, I see you know, it's make more sense now. I mean, when I in Newport when I was. We, we had we had in our

[8407-391] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Collective bargaining agreement that's currently in place is if I have a person out, I shall offer the hours to a person working in that building first. So they are tied. So that's what I do is offer to the.
TEXT> What a great it would be a great opportunity for the kids in the high school to get community service time  and help and help.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Certain circumstances. Yes. If you go to see expenditures, go by object. Yes, sir.

[8407-480] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: is this if you if if we can find every way possible and the child doesn't require going to. I've seen children that have been in wheelchairs in the schools, so I know that we can be adaptable to to a child with extreme disabilities.
TEXT> We have children with in wheelchairs in our schools. Correct. We just just a week ago, we looked at a couple of pieces of property as a. Place where our students with certain needs or learning challenges would, would be housed, if you will. We continue to do that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I just don't want to hear any more that we can't handle it. So we got to send him away because your children that you're sending away, they're the ones

[8407-483] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: We.
TEXT> In certain I see the certain extreme cases and I get that. However, for the most part, my daughter could have stayed in Claremont during our process of four years of three different schools and finally graduating six months later at Stevens her senior year. I'm not, I'm not. I'm just saying I'm championing for the children as much as the families to stay here because it's not their fault. It. I had to drive myself the task of driving every day to  took it twice a day  for a year to take a child to school because they couldn't handle her was extremely aggravating. It took away four hours of our family every day because when you're driving, you're not. You can't be distracted by it just doesn't even matter. I'm advocating for the possibilities to see the possibilities of bringing as much as we can back.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I think. I think we're all hoping that that.

[8407-489] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: going to take place and we hope it's going to be a 2 to 3 month process. We're not going to be looking at months and months. Also school calendar a meeting with the Sri A this Friday to talk about school calendar collective bargaining.
TEXT> This Friday, Frank Sprague and Brian Rapp, representing the school board and the collective bargaining subcommittee are going to meet the Friday afternoon with the SRA, NEA to  talk about ground rules and to talk about dates for collective bargaining. Youth risk behavior study group. There were two articles in your packet. Additional recommendations coming to the board  regarding health  and some changes in how we do business in preparing children with important information elementary, middle and high school. And last but not least, food service. You do have in your packet a food service report. I also put. At your place a light yellow sheet. Thank you, Mr. O'Neill. A light yellow sheet that shows to date. As of this week, we've served 167,000 meals. You can see the paid, the reduced. Free reduced. And if you'll note, Kyle Gregory would like to report to you that parent teacher students are very pleased with the new choices changes we have made to the program. Lots of positive feedback. We still are going forward. And I talked to Carol Gregory about this. Mike O'Neill is sure that all the food service staff are aware that in June, we're going to be reviewing our summary piece to be sure that we are doing the best we can. It's not a question about our service. It's just is there a way of doing business better? And that's the question we're going to be answering.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And if I can move right along. There are so many important dates and events planned starting tomorrow right through to the weekend of June 10th, which is alumni weekend.

[8433-20] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: We have no student up tonight. We'll go right to superintendent's report. Thank you.
TEXT> And good evening.  This Friday, June 3rd, the annual Stevens High School Pop concert will be held at Stephens High School beginning at 7:00.  In the high school auditorium. I would like to remind the committee, as well as the community, that this will be,  there there'll be several performances by Stevens High School band,  choir, as well as the music theater programs. And I'd also like to note that this is the final concert of Patricia Granter, who has been  in our music instructor,  leader of the band and chorus,  for the past 21 years. So it certainly would be nice as a sendoff to Mrs. Granter if people could attend not only to celebrate our student musicians and in theater students, but also  to thank her for her 21 years of  of service. I also before packet there is a  a yellow  sheet and on this  it's actually a list of class of 2016 event reminders.  All of our seniors received this, and it's just gives you an appreciation of what's going on at Stevens High School. As our class of 2016 soon to be graduates are preparing  for their their graduation day, which is June 9th.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So that is more for an FYI. I'm also pleased to remind the board that as a result of of Stevens High School administration myself working with the Stevens High

[8433-22] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: that have occurred and are still being planned tomorrow night, for example. The desired elementary school is having a concert at 630. So it's a very, very busy time of the year. And last but certainly not least, I emailed you about an hour ago.
TEXT> A New Hampshire  Public Radio,  article, how Schools are becoming the New Safety Nets for New Hampshire's Media Students. And I shared I shared this article with you because research is now showing more clearly that stress from poverty or other pressures at home can have a major limiting impact on the chances of students succeeding academically and ultimately  their long term quality of life. And so,  we've had a discussion, if you recall, back in the fall regarding social workers. And the theme was, we wanted to have students be in a better position to learn by addressing certain needs and issues. Clearly, there is,   a financial  component of that. But what we are hoping to do, and I look forward to meeting  the school board. Claremont School Board meeting with the  Claremont City Council,  in partnership with others to start addressing  this issue.  Because poverty is not just about our students, it is about our city. And it has a major impact  on many components of it. And this is something that I believe we   need to address.  It's our responsibility to address. It's not someone else's responsibility to resolve. So I look forward to that. Working with Mayor Charlene Leavitt, Guy San Diego and the City Council. It's it's a it's a non-negotiable. And it may not be an overnight, but we we have to confront that and to chip away at it.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Thank you. Everybody. Citizens comments tonight.

[8433-40] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anything else for. Nope. Okay.
TEXT> Well, you know, I, I let me just, if I may,  last week there  we, we had some challenges with the length of the grass in one of our athletic fields.  I  was given  a heads up on that.  I was approached by a couple of parents by email.  I was able to. Working with the director of maintenance  and take care of that matter. He had, the night before, hired a part time person to address it. It was it was addressed. And I was able to reach out to to the,  the parents of the children who participated in that middle school sport. So we do take it. We don't take anything for granted. And when when there are problems that really are adult responsibilities and we identify them, we try to move quickly. I'm not being defensive saying that, but,  we do not  minimize the impact of children being ready to compete on a Saturday and keen and not having transportation.  But once again, the goal is how do we avoid that in the future?
NEXT> Brent Ferland: Yeah.

[8433-56] Ben Nester | Stevens High School administrator overseeing guidance and college plan | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Couple other.
TEXT> Pieces of information that you might be interested in knowing. In regard to class of 2016 post-graduation plans.  You can see there that we've conducted a survey, a post graduation survey out of the 118 seniors that we have this year, 80 of completed the survey. So this is a representation of that data. It's not raw data, meaning it does not include all 118 seniors.  So of the 80 that completed the survey, we're looking at 32 students that are that plan to go on to attend a four year college or university. You can see a list of colleges and universities there. 25 students plan to attend a two year school.  21 of the students noted above,  our first generation college students and 23 students planned to join the workforce and included a fancy graph there for those that prefer. I know Mike prefers that. So,  moving up to the next agenda item we have, Catch the Wave. On May 20th, we had  our representative  or not our representative, but a representative from River Valley, Eric came to the school. He met with 14 of our students.  Those students received the enrollment materials. And he, you know, had consult time with all of them. They asked questions and so forth. But at this point, I don't know exactly how many of the students, you know, took River Valley up on that offer, which is a nice opportunity for students to earn college credit.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Next agenda item. That we added here is information on SAT. And and what we can report out at this time is that we had 100 plus students take the

[8433-57] Ben Nester | Stevens High School administrator overseeing guidance and college plan | 2016-06-01
PREV> Ben Nester: consult time with all of them. They asked questions and so forth. But at this point, I don't know exactly how many of the students, you know, took River Valley up on that offer, which is a nice opportunity for students to earn college credit.
TEXT> Next agenda item.  That we added here is information on SAT. And and  what we can report out at this time is that we had 100 plus students take the SAT. Out of the 114 students in the junior class, the state or the state had originally intended to put out the the data statewide  on May 18th or before that time, but we we don't have that yet, so we can't really compare our student scores to the state averages. So at this point, I didn't bring that info with me.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Has there been any word from the state?

[8433-63] Ben Nester | Stevens High School administrator overseeing guidance and college plan | 2016-06-01
PREV> Ben Nester: would say around 2020, plus colleges from around the state come and set up tables in the gymnasium, and then students were able to come cycle through, pick up information, ask questions and, and, you know, get a sense of colleges that are out there.
TEXT> And there's these were primarily New Hampshire colleges.  The other the other big event was more recent, May 27th,  20 plus juniors took a bus down to Keene State and there were 50 or more colleges represented there. So that was a exciting opportunity for them.  It was open to all all juniors, the May 27th event, and we did have 60 plus, which was more than half of the students attend. But, you know, one of the things that that we you know, now that I feel like I have my feet under me a little bit more this year, is we're going to start to try to bring in the sophomores next year. And, you know, even the freshmen, just to sort of put the college piece on their radar. So, yeah.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may, you know, I'm glad Ben said what he just said, because in all fairness to Ben and our new counseling staff, and by the way, tonight we're

[8433-64] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Ben Nester: I have my feet under me a little bit more this year, is we're going to start to try to bring in the sophomores next year. And, you know, even the freshmen, just to sort of put the college piece on their radar. So, yeah.
TEXT> If I may, you know, I'm glad Ben said what he just said, because in all fairness to Ben and our new counseling staff, and by the way, tonight we're going to talk about our third edition to the counseling staff with the retirement of Rebecca,  our counseling colleagues walked into these these challenges. I had brought this up about the desire to increase the number of students who are having specific targets, targets aside from work,  and also the importance of the middle school and the high school working more closely together in this conversation, starting at the middle school. So in all fairness to our counseling staff and Ben Nester,  they hit the ground learning about past practice and about what's been going on. And Ben has already set some sites with our counseling colleagues about the future. So this will be a continued conversation  regarding Castle Wave, regarding,   the exposure to our to our students, to opportunities beyond, beyond or after graduation. And this is a this is a big step forward. And I look forward to that conversation continuing. So Ben, thank you. And please share my my thoughts to you,  our colleagues. Because if the work in progress. But I'm optimistic with the caliber of people we have and the investment  that we're going to see this expanding.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I just had one question about your 80 students took the test. Was it a survey that all of the seniors were required to take, or was it just participating?

[8433-68] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: About 100.
TEXT> So a little over 100. So we weren't able to capture the entire junior class.  And that's something that we're taking a look at going forward is how do we how do we ensure that every single junior takes the SAT, whether the first day or on the makeup day? And we we reached out in multiple ways.  The big portion of the students who  opted out and made a decision not to take that test were in the Owls program. So we're we're putting language in the contract for the Owls program next year, stating that the expectation and the the maintain maintenance of the eligibility in the program will be based in part on their participation all state and national assessments, just like any other student at the high school. So those are the kinds of things that, as we live through them and we're seeing holes in the system we're trying to address by.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So we have 38 seniors that we don't know what they're doing pretty much.

[8433-80] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: know, some of the sometimes some of those plans. But yeah, the workforce is another one. Just seeing kind of what data we can find about, you know, where what some of those plans are because some, some can be good plans. I'm just curious.
TEXT> Yeah. And I think that would be valuable. Because I, a good chunk of those kids are going to be students coming out of the tech center who have their HVAC certification, or are you going to go be great off into being electricians? So absolutely, that would be valuable information.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I certainly, if I may, Brian, I this conversation I never intended that workforce is like the leftovers. There's nothing wrong with the workforce as as you just heard. I

[8433-82] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: not in the slice for the reasons that just been cited. I mean, especially with some of the trades and the need for for good, you know, skilled men and women in the trades, great opportunities in this part of the of of our country.
TEXT> And one of the things on this sheet, I think to me, the the number that I am most proud of and I say  I because, you know, the guidance department did the work. The 21 of these students are first generation going to college. And that to me speaks volumes of the kind of work because that's difficult to to get a first generation student feeling comfortable getting them to to step over that barrier, you know, they don't have the experience to call on from their parents. Everything is brand new. Getting the financial aid. It's really there's so many obstacles and barriers in their way.  So for 21 of them to to make that journey is that that's the number that I really think should be highlighted.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So when I circled actually.

[8433-89] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: It's too.
TEXT> Bad it is. And but that was the same way last year. That was when the vast majority of available was going to open up for our kids. It was always going to be difficult for them to, you know, get down to the college in between in the middle of a school day and have the times match up where they were going to be able to leave and not miss class and come back and not miss class on the other end. So we we knew going in that the times were going to be after 205 and weekends.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Do they have to go up to the River Valley campus or can they take them at Granite State as well?

[8433-203] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: it there are several different factors that that were having an effect on the budget for this year. There were, if you look at the third bullet down there were for students who, as of July 1st last year, went to out of district placement.
TEXT> There had been changed in the in the spring and they, they, they were on their way. And so there was a gap between when the budget was being developed and when these guys went out to out of district placement. And that is always sort of the tricky thing with these guys is I walked into this July 1st and there were four kids that went to out of district placement who were completely budgeted for, you know, costing the district $350,000. And that was just a that was just to get going. We also happened this year is we had four move ins from kids from other communities. Could be Manchester, Nashua, you know, Newport. And when those kids come and they move into our community and they're already in out of district placement, we become the district of liability, which means that we are now responsible for their special education costs. So you take those two factors right there. The four kids who are budgeted for, plus the four movies this year, you're well over $500,000 in costs.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: A couple.

[8433-234] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brent Ferland: we've got to take care of it. My question is going to be most of the all of these out of districts are special ed, from an educational standpoint. I mean, do we have like a discipline issue with that district or is it usually.
TEXT> It will run the gamut. We have some,  we have some really involved, significant  kiddos with severe cognitive disabilities who are very, very involved.  We also have we also have some kids who who have some significant behavioral challenges, mental health challenges. And I think one of the, the, the lenses that we always try to look at things through is, is, is safety and and is are the kids,  are we going to be able to meet their needs in, in these programs, in, in our programs. And. And on the other kids in this, these kids are going to be safe. And so when kids come back from, if they move in from let's say we look at our for move ins, we will always sort of take a look at our out of district coordinator. We'll take a look at that IEP when it comes in, because we have to  take a look at that. And we will look at the where the kiddo is currently placed, what program they're placed, and then try to match that particular kid to a program that's here in  Claremont.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And how quickly does that process take place?

[8433-240] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: And how quickly, when that review was done, how quickly can where the student goes change?
TEXT> It? Can it can happen. It would have to be a  an IEP meeting that would include include everybody. But I think Dave sort of takes a takes a first look at it and says, you know, I think that in the best interest of this kid and and where he's at, given his particular educational needs, the best place for him is to continue in that placement. And  we're not I mean, these guys are in some pretty heavy hitting, out of district placements, right? We're talking.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I guess my question would be if there was a student that we felt that we had that for, how quickly would that.

[8433-272] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: need to start really, really talking about this and really get this out to their taxpayers because they're the ones that eventually are going to make the decision someday that says, yes, we want a place here or we want to keep sending them out.
TEXT> First of all, I disagree with sending. My child was sent out of the system ten years ago, and I had a hard time with it every day. I drove it and took it twice a day. I didn't like that. I didn't like having to do that. I didn't like the fact that my daughter felt like she was alienated, that she felt like she wasn't part of a community. I don't like the idea that we shipped those children out and that we can't have them here because they are our community and we're trying to reestablish community. We're trying to work together as a school system with the city. Now. We're trying to bring this whole thing together and become a community. So I'm asking these questions, and I'm sounding maybe even a little blunt about it, but I want to I want to get it out there. I want to get people talking about we need this here as opposed to, well, let's just keep paying. What is it $174,000 for for students? Was that correct? $174,000 for four students.
NEXT> Chris: For four students who moved in over this year. And, and then an additional four students at 174. And then there were four additional students for 300.

[8433-283] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Frank Sprague. Yes.' in the no | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: Probably.
TEXT> So I'm wondering, I don't know who these kids are. You probably do and what their needs are. How many staff members would we need to properly service those eight kids?
NEXT> Brent Ferland: Quarters of $1 million worth.

[8433-291] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Frank Sprague. Yes.' in the no | 2016-06-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: I think I'm I think I'm hearing your question a little differently than Chris is.
TEXT> These kids are severe enough that they're not here.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Oh, absolutely.

[8433-298] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: More than what we're spending.
TEXT> We don't we as you know, Frank, we don't send out a district because of convenient. We send out a district because the cost to keep them in district  out of the district is not something we like. But as taxpayers dollars we're trying to be have to meet the needs of the child.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: But that's not necessarily true. You just said that you had to have four of them come in here, and you had to follow what they had to come in

[8433-304] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Depends on the need.
TEXT> Depends on the. So I hear what you're saying. If we had if we had a long term solution in place for let's say that all program and it was on its own campus as some of these kids come, come back, we we could bring them back. The problem. The problem is, is that bringing them back and putting them into Stevens High School is not a is not a that is not that is not a solution.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I get that.

[8433-306] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'Patrick' [45, 4 | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I get that.
TEXT> Yeah. So and having worked in an alternative Ed, we had, we generally had to do a 4 to 1 ratio if we wanted to go out and we needed to be able to get them outside and break them up. But, Yeah, I, I kind of agree with Frank.  Frank is raising a very relevant question. Because, Some of these students are I, I could  imagine some of these students that not all the students would necessarily have to have I piece to be an alternative or to be to be an alternate, sometimes an alternative program. But you're correct when we you yes. When you I think look at the students that have to be there usually out of placement. And the more you start combining those students into a program,  it can. Yeah. It can it it it it's very hard to kind of put a number on because it.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Gets more complicated.

[8433-317] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: which was out in a hangar, an old hangar at the at the Deering airport. And the committee came up with the bottom line was a it was working because it wasn't in the high school and it wasn't in any other regular educational building.
TEXT> Number one, be it was working because it was fully staffed. And I'll get to what does that mean in a second? See, it was working because the staff that was there created a separate but,  unique culture for those kids where they did not feel like they had been abandoned or were disassociated from the district. And as a matter of fact, they created their own school. It was theirs. They owned it. They they were proud about it. And they identified themselves with being in that building. And they wanted to be there to the point where parents in the eighth grade were advocating with administration to put their students in the Alt program, because they already could see that my child's going to be more successful there than than in the high school. So what a lot of these Pinkerton and Hillsborough I'm going to use just because they're front and center in my head. If you have a program director who has the behavioral background so that that person  is overseeing the entire program, is doing the staffing, is doing all of that, and you have four core educators for your four core disciplines, and you've got two powers.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: That's what it would take to run a program. And then you use the resources in your in the rest of your district, your school, your district psychologist, or you

[8433-318] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: If you have a program director who has the behavioral background so that that person is overseeing the entire program, is doing the staffing, is doing all of that, and you have four core educators for your four core disciplines, and you've got two powers.
TEXT> That's what it would take to run a program. And then you use the resources in your in the rest of your district, your school, your district psychologist, or you use your crisis counselor and you cycle those people, and you cycle in art  and PE, and you use other resources like Odyssey where and V Lacs to supplement that core curriculum. But that's that's kind of the foundational requirements to make it work. And the recommendation they made was don't change a thing, leave it where it is, if anything, because some kids and you also want to give kids the option if they want to take a class in the high school, they should be near enough so they can bounce over to the high school and take that art class or photography or theater. Right? So they said, even better than being out endearing. What we would recommend, because there was a nice big meadow behind the high school. Get a modular, get a double wide modular that has four classrooms and at least one bathroom in there. It's Ada compliant and put it in the back part of that meadow. So there's distance and room for those kids to a be outside and vent and do what they need to do without being disruptive next to the high school.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And they can walk if they need to, to the high school to access resources there. That didn't end up getting followed through. They're still at Dearing. And but that

[8433-346] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (minute taker: 'Brant, you made the moti | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: even want to take as I look through again this article, I may want to get in touch with, the folks who Manchester has, has, has talked with as well, who gave them a proposal, just as another avenue to continue to to look at.
TEXT> Another thought that I'm having is we think of all programs for kind of the bottom end of the spectrum. Have we looked at maybe doing a lot programs for the top end of the spectrum, where we would spend less per student on some of these more gifted kids, kind of give them a less than. I mean, is there a ways to work around that, get them out of the classroom quicker, kind of move them through the system a little faster? Then we're not spending as much money on those students, which would then free up resources to spend on the stuff on the lower end. Because I can think I mean, I see some really talented, gifted students come through Claremont that, you know, it might be kind of is there a way to work at the. Yeah, let's get them out of the classroom and working on after school job at one, rather than have them sit around for an extra couple of hours and kind of reward that initiative. Because if we can, I mean, in dollars and cents wise, if we get them out of the building quicker, we can take those resources and that money and put it back into somebody else that might need it more. I mean, is that possible with the way that educational laws are structured, or they have to have a certain amount of seat time before we can send them on their way?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Just just thinking about it.

[8433-353] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'Patrick' [45, 4 | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: a very different culture and not having and where they got not something sometimes they got such a top quality education. I seen it where those students took were able to take more responsibility in owning their school than adults can do, and it would.
TEXT> And the reason it it can happen when they allowed to do so.  And it's it's really hard when you have reentry programs because they're always looking at the kids, always kind of looking at their program, as  you know, with a sense of guilt or shame. And it's not what it has to be. But but okay. Anyways, two quick thoughts. One was, I've seen. A. Sometimes, you know, I just remember a program that was made up of many programs.  But that was also, again, it was a nonprofit group that kind of took out district students. But the other. Again. Is it possible this is my main question is, is it possible for the kind of some of the things we need to do to remain local districts, but to kind of create a to kind of have an inter-district,  school because the, the community that we're serving just in this area just seems it, it's been on my mind for some time  and it's I think every district has these needs. And I sometimes wonder, is it is it that something that's feasible. And because it could it's not just about the money, it's about wanting to have a program that works and not make it. Because I, I've seen where some of these programs, you can create great schools and the kids get so much out of them. And that's really what I'd like to see.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I think that's what I think. That's what we have in mind. And I'm glad to hear you continue to talk about that, because it is something that I would

[8433-357] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Just just Claremont.
TEXT> Pomona and,  and and it was together for a couple of years and then, you know, eventually unraveled. And at this point, I neighbors to the north and, and neighbors to the south, and there is no interest in pursuing that kind of a program at this point.  But, you know, again, we'll continue to look for creative ways to bring some of these kids home, because I think that we all firmly believe that if we can educate them here in our own community, that is what's in the best interest for them.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: You know, I will share with you bring closure to this conversation, though, that we've had this discussion. We, the southwestern superintendents, have had this very discussion because this this

[8433-359] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: need, but geographically it not realistic. But we we we are not. I don't want anyone to think that we are done looking and we're done seeking alternatives. We are not because we it's it's impossible to just be to placate this and we'll continue.
TEXT> When you be nice. If we could have Manchester be able to say to me and Chester that we have a facility that might be able to offer some of those children an alternative here, that we will, we could be the same stone setter. We can be the the one school system that says that we're going to look at the emotional side of things. Most of the kids in this, in this area, they need a place where it's safe. They need to know that they're safe. They need to know they're going to get a meal. They need to know they're not going to be moved around next week. Because a lot of these kids in our area, they move around a lot. They don't know if they're going to get fed or not. So it and that's not even the special ed kids. That's not even the special ed kids. That's that's that's children in my  area where I live in my village. So, so  I'm excited because in the next three years, I want a champion to help see that happen. I want us to be the city that makes a difference, that our school system says we're going to do something different.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: We're going to go out there, we're going to find the best thing, and we're going to make it. And then we're going to say to Manchester, hey, why don't

[8433-382] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Unidentified: So that.
TEXT> So that means 25% of our children are looking at special needs situations, IEPs. And that's not even some of the people that even understand or know what that stuff is, right?
NEXT> Unidentified: Correct.

[8433-384] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Unidentified: Correct.
TEXT> Okay. So that's a lot. So we so we definitely it signifies the emotional needs that we need to start meeting with the children is signifying that our community needs to come together and unify for these children so that they do have a place to feel safe. So they do have a place they can eat. I believe that the community has already started working on trying to have food spot drop offs this summer. I'm one of them that children will be able to come get things to eat all summer long, drinks to eat. So there's stuff happening everywhere and it's great. Just want to update, you know, keep, keep that conversation constantly going about this so that maybe somebody out there tonight watching and says, hey, by God, I've got a piece of land, let's do this. You know, maybe somebody will step forward in the community and say, I want to be a part of this.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Let's actually had that happen. Earlier this week, last week, my week spent together community member. Unfortunately, the square footage they had available was not enough for what we need.

[8433-460] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: need to do when they're on duty. And so, you know, they were doing their job. But that was his campaign workers coming in. Secret service came in earlier that day already and was setting up. And the the gym was off limits for us.
TEXT> So with the children, they were interfering with everything and we charge them $250. I think we should come up with, as you suggested, a great thing that says if you're above the community as far as forum,  that larger events, whether it's a concert and Steven Tyler wants to come back to his school and do a concert, you know damn well, but it's going to be.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Which is why.

[8433-463] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: You never know.
TEXT> Which is. Why we suggested to that to any campaign that called us. We tried to get them to come during the school day, because that's the history of campaigns coming to Claremont and to Stephen's High School. And I felt very strongly that this was a great opportunity for our students to become politically involved and to see somebody live, and that's how it's always been done. It's never been a night event that wasn't an option for them. So, you know, I think that's another thing. If it's happening during the school day and you want to involve the students, that would be a different rate. But if you want to use it at night and you want to use all our facilities in our personnel for that length of time, well, now you're talking kind of a different stratosphere of usage.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So yeah. And I have to say is he I, I think it's, you know, an amazing leap, unique, experience that we have in Claremont to be able to have

[8433-467] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the the board that was in place during this process wanted to continue the heritage of, of the city by welcoming, Mr. Trump wanted to have an evening event, not an I say event, quote unquote. It was an event. And, the rest is history.
TEXT> Great. So he didn't even want to come during when the when it has been a historical thing for the kids in Claremont to be a part of. He couldn't come here and show the respect that every other, every single following president and every other candidate is done. He had to be different and come in here and take over the school at night. So we should have been charging more for that or have it in system in place. So we can.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Can we can have it, I think.

[8433-527] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Unidentified: Well.
TEXT> On a couple of issues. First of all, we have a number of restrooms that are our single entry restrooms, and students in the building know where they are and that they can access them.  They're not just for administration. You know, the one that's in the administrative section. There's one in the nurses, there's one downstairs. So there's a number of single restroom options for students to use. Having said that,  the students at Stevens are they know each other. They all know who's who. Not to say that everyone is out or that everyone is even has self-identified what they are.  My  concern would be that when you place a label or a definition on anything, it it becomes just that it becomes a label. And we're talking about not just transgender, we're talking about, identity confusion. There's a whole there's so many other areas that this bleeds into for, for students. And I think it just comes down as Doctor Goodwin saying it's a common sense to knowing our students, to providing them with options for talking to us, you know, sharing what they're comfortable sharing with us, or the crisis counselor, guidance counselor, nurse,  and then and letting them know that we're there to help them in whatever way we can.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Having said that, if you have someone who's somewhere where they're not supposed to be as an administrator, you deal with it like any other misbehavior. And you, you you

[8433-545] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Unidentified: The thought and I.
TEXT> Think, I think we're a better place to maybe address it might be in our student handbook. And I think you bring up a really good point, because I think it's a good idea for us to say, to put in some language about what our expectations are in our school and what we expect students to do on, on their behalf as far as accessing different facilities. So I would I would be interested in looking at some verbiage to put in our student handbook, which would identify our expectations around student behavior and the use of bathrooms and communication with administration. And that might, I think, be a softer,  approach versus having to put some kind of a policy into.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And legally a student handbook really is policy.

[8558-3] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Approve the minutes. Thank you. I'll second. Thank you. All in favor? Opposed? Thank you. And superintendents report. Thank you. Thank you. And good evening. I have several items.
TEXT> I'm going to be moving up pretty quickly, however. You know, we're into the month of August, and there's been a lot of press,  some of it.  We'll be talking about today. But there's also a great opportunity  that oftentimes the press doesn't pick up on. And so I'd like to share with you some some great things that are going on. We recently received notification from the the Party of Education that we have been awarded  a fund grant  of in the amount of $35,000 each of the three years of the funding  cycle, and we are going to be in receipt of McKinney Vento federal funds. These are not automatic disbursements. This is a competitive grant.  The highest amount is 35,000. It's based on  our strong community involvement. The fact that we have social services tied to education goals, as well as the high need of our student population and homeless, that we have been awarded this a three year competitive grant, and it supports our homeless population directly. It's very pleased about that  and more will be forthcoming. Coryell Clare is at a Department of Ed  conference with some of our colleagues, teaching colleagues for the next couple of days.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So I'm standing in on behalf of her. We also received a note on behalf of the Nail Education Foundation, the Great Schools Partnership, and Everyday Democracy. We are being

[8558-4] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: this a three year competitive grant, and it supports our homeless population directly. It's very pleased about that and more will be forthcoming. Coryell Clare is at a Department of Ed conference with some of our colleagues, teaching colleagues for the next couple of days.
TEXT> So I'm standing in on behalf of her. We also received a note on behalf of the Nail Education Foundation, the Great Schools Partnership, and Everyday Democracy.  We are being awarded.  We've been selected to participate in being awarded in our regional community Engagement initiative. This is a Nellie May Education Foundation and community engagement initiative. This is also a three year community engagement, $10,000 per year, and is going to allow us to put a particular focus on early childhood education. Also on, as you know, in your on our agenda, we've talked about it for a couple of months. On August 9th,  the Claremont City Council and the Claremont School Board will meet here. Tuesday, August 9th at 6 p.m..  It's a very important meeting.  It's going to be the beginning of, I hope will be a multi-year partnership. The theme behind this meeting  is going to be to discuss the school's issues, discuss the city's issues, and then what are  our priorities? What are our joint priorities? And that's going to take some time, because there are issues and challenges that the school district faces that the city and the school council faces. So why not partner and work together  to address those?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And there'll be more discussion about that. Brian Wrap myself. Charlene Lovett, the mayor and city manager, will be meeting next Monday morning. To review the agenda. And I look

[8558-6] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: is the New Hampshire criminal offense record check. In the past, after the state police performed the criminal history record check on a person being considered for employment in a school district, the state police were only allowed to report only convictions of specific felonies.
TEXT> And it's important to note that that may seem sufficient, but it is not uncommon for felonious charges to be pled down to misdemeanors in the court system. As a result, this information is never reported to the school district. And sadly enough, this compromises the safety of our students and our staff. So the new RSA now will no longer be focusing on felonies. It will be focusing on crimes. And so an individual who has had certain felonies pled down. It will still be a parent. As I've said publicly before, we are not looking for the perfect person, but we are looking to ensure that our candidates have a background that is type of person we want in our schools. The, the  superintendents, by the way, are the only individuals who can see the criminal defense record information  that is released from the Department of Safety. So this is an example of an envelope that superintendents in New Hampshire are receiving from the Department of Safety, and it says confidential on it, which means that only superintendents can open it. And the reason being is that there was a lot of resistance against this bill the first year it was defeated. This past year it was passed with the understanding that this information would not be common to all, even though it never has been.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The perception was a lot of individuals will know about persons private business. So when you open the letter, it says stop. And it says for a superintendent, chief Executive

[8558-7] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: And the reason being is that there was a lot of resistance against this bill the first year it was defeated. This past year it was passed with the understanding that this information would not be common to all, even though it never has been.
TEXT> The perception was a lot of individuals will know about persons private business. So when you open the letter, it says stop. And it says for a superintendent, chief Executive Officer, eyes only. When I talked with Senator Molly Kelly in early January, there was a great deal of concern that the privacy of individuals would be compromised, and that I agreed that it would be in the best interest if we compromise on our side by having only superintendents look at this. There's some angst from some superintendents about the additional work. I think students safety is our top priority. So 30, 40 minutes every other day to open up these envelopes to be sure we're hiring the right people. I can live with that. And I think  my other colleagues, a fellow superintendents, can as well. Let me just give you an example of how important this is. The current criminal record. Check the current one prior years. These are examples of how the current excuse me, the past criminal defense record process would be problematic. Criminal threatening, simple assault. We never knew of, simple assault. We never knew of criminal threatening because many cases were pled down so we would know about it. Failure to report injuries, including sexual assault.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: An example of being pled down, even student hazing and the current the prior criminal criminal records check also did not disclose misdemeanor. Misdemeanor theft doesn't rise to the level

[8558-8] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: me, the past criminal defense record process would be problematic. Criminal threatening, simple assault. We never knew of, simple assault. We never knew of criminal threatening because many cases were pled down so we would know about it. Failure to report injuries, including sexual assault.
TEXT> An example of being pled down, even student hazing and the current the prior criminal criminal records check also did not disclose misdemeanor. Misdemeanor theft doesn't rise to the level of a felony, and many felony theft cases were pled down to misdemeanor theft and thus not reported.  I have no interest in superintendent of the schools, have no interest in the privacy of New Hampshire citizens. But we have all the interest to know that we're hiring the type of men and women in our district that we want with our children, that we want with our colleagues. So, that being said, I am very, very pleased  that with the with the work of not just myself but many residents in the city of Claremont, our state reps, New Hampshire School Board Association, New Hampshire State Police,  among others,  help support this. And now we're in place.  There's no guarantee with anything we do, but at least we have another layer of information. And to me, that is so, so critical. And so the travesty that occurred  in March of 2014,  and the not being aware of this individual background when he was hired in August 2013, now will become a thing of the past.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And last but not least, on August 30th, the Cornish, Claremont and Unity staff are going to be participating in a welcome back presentation. There's going to be an unprecedented

[8558-9] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: layer of information. And to me, that is so, so critical. And so the travesty that occurred in March of 2014, and the not being aware of this individual background when he was hired in August 2013, now will become a thing of the past.
TEXT> And last but not least,  on August 30th, the Cornish, Claremont and Unity staff are going to be participating in a welcome back presentation. There's going to be an unprecedented presentation to all our staff, one that has never been seen before. And aside from the the media, we also are going to be clarifying what our focus and what our goals are for our students that will be measurable and will be reported district wide saw six wide. These goals are not new, but now  we're going to out of the gate that our goal for this particular group of children and this particular subject will be that percentage of growth. And knowing that not all children are in the same playing field, but we're going to be able to measure, we're going to be able to report out, and we're going to be able to address where there are gaps. And this is going to be ongoing. So we're not going to be waiting for a smarter balanced assessment, or we're not going to be waiting  or in the past practice of for report cards, but this will be ongoing discussion. And parents, faculty and students will have more targets and be able to measure their their child progress, their students progress and be able to respond to that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So August 30th, I welcome the school board members to please attend that presentation. This work was done by the administrative team in late June and early July. With our

[8558-22] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: How about it?
TEXT> Have at it the. Albert Einstein seems to get credited with this, although we don't necessarily know if it's true, but that the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result. And this just brings to mind what is going on with this whole scheduling discussion. And since I was a part of the initiative to change our schedule,  I thought it worthwhile to come back and give a little bit of history and also try and give a little bit of backbone to what's going on here with the schedule. When we started to have conversation on the scheduling, we were shown some information when Middleton first came on board and I think he shared it again. But I think it's worthwhile to share a couple of the numbers that came out of it. This data happens to be from the school year of ten, 11, 20, 20, 10 to 2011, and the same date is available to everyone going back before then. It's in a pivot table and you can pull this all up 22.5%. 22.5% of the students at Stevens High School at that time failed at least one class in that. Let's just sort of pick out some of the some of the more interesting points. Algebra one 23.5%.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Civics. Boy, this would drive Richard Madigan nuts for people who sat with him on the board. 30.6% of our students failed civics, 20% failed English, 926% failed English, 1,011%

[8558-23] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: table and you can pull this all up 22.5%. 22.5% of the students at Stevens High School at that time failed at least one class in that. Let's just sort of pick out some of the some of the more interesting points. Algebra one 23.5%.
TEXT> Civics. Boy, this would drive Richard Madigan nuts for people who sat with him on the board. 30.6% of our students failed civics, 20% failed English, 926% failed English, 1,011% failed English, 1,129% failed geometry 21.6 failed lab physical science. Whereas what's interesting is advanced lab physical science. None of them failed U.S. history 25%. These numbers are compelling. They were compelling back then. They're compelling. As you're going through the discussion right now, the issue related to. The schedule takes you back to Einstein one more time. If we take the kids and throw them through the same schedule, we will get different results.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We have a member of the public speaker and pay attention. Thank you.

[8558-25] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: We have a member of the public speaker and pay attention. Thank you.
TEXT> Well, most of this actually, I think is a certain amount to the board and a lot of it is to the public, and most of it is to the parents of kids who are coming in next year as freshmen and next year's who was coming in as seniors. So I'll get around to my point on that one. We as. A board, and I still say we as a member of having been on the board, have a very unique responsibility. The board's responsibility is not. And I've said this and I've gotten you know, I push back on is not to the taxpayers, it's not to the teachers, it's not to Middleton. It's not the board is focused on the kids. It's the only board that you can get on where you have a unique group that you're focused on, which are the kids? Number one. Number two, you can't stop them from moving along. You can't tell your third graders, hey, we'll figure out the schedule next year. Hang tight. We'll get you into fourth grade a couple of years down the road.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Once we figure it out, it's this dynamic process that must be addressed. But your audience is one. The people who helped the board be successful is large, but the

[8558-26] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: on, which are the kids? Number one. Number two, you can't stop them from moving along. You can't tell your third graders, hey, we'll figure out the schedule next year. Hang tight. We'll get you into fourth grade a couple of years down the road.
TEXT> Once we figure it out, it's this dynamic process that must be addressed. But your audience is one. The people who helped the board be successful is large, but the audience is one. So let's just go back a little bit. Pat Barry came on board and asked one of the great questions. And that question is still there now, and it's there for the board. It's there for the teachers. It's all the way through. It's the current block schedule meeting the needs of all Stephen's high School students. Simple question. And then she headed out amongst other schools and talking with the teachers and talking with parents and everyone else. And most importantly, we talked to our students at the end of every year and ask the seniors, what is your opinion of your experience at Stevens? So what did the students, what have they said? And this goes back, you know, a decade and a half  of having these meetings. What does students say? There's lack of accountability. There's low expectations for students. Teachers need to expect more from us, more focus on on basics. We need four years of English. We need to write more often.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We need four years of bath. We need better prep for college. We need more honors and AP classes. We need more academically challenging opportunities. We need to be pushed.

[8558-27] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: decade and a half of having these meetings. What does students say? There's lack of accountability. There's low expectations for students. Teachers need to expect more from us, more focus on on basics. We need four years of English. We need to write more often.
TEXT> We need four years of bath. We need better prep for college. We need more honors and AP classes. We need more academically challenging opportunities. We need to be pushed. We're not pushed as hard as we could have been. Higher expectations are needed. These are the kids saying it to the board members and to the superintendents at the time. This is what we want out of our school. And yet the schedule is giving the kind of results that none of us can be proud of, and we're letting them down. So what happened after that is Pat got together with a whole range. We had several school board meetings. We had several meetings with teachers, with faculty, both with board, without board all the way through. And we had several public forums. And I can tell you we had the public forum because I was at them, along with my wife and I were along with Chris Terrell, and we were the only three that ever showed up at any of the public forums that were going on at that time to discuss the schedule, the pros and cons, and what was trying to take place.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: What are we hearing back on the current schedule that has only been in place for one year? It's too hard on the kids. Is one of the messages too

[8558-28] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: and I were along with Chris Terrell, and we were the only three that ever showed up at any of the public forums that were going on at that time to discuss the schedule, the pros and cons, and what was trying to take place.
TEXT> What are we hearing back on the current schedule that has only been in place for one year? It's too hard on the kids. Is one of the messages too hard on the kids? Yet the kids are saying, push us harder. I have two children that went through Stevens. One was our valedictorian and one graduated in the top ten. The valedictorian went on to college and his comment back was I was not well prepared coming out of Stevens. They didn't work me hard enough. The kids that I was up against at WPI had been worked harder, were better prepared, were better prepared to work in college and to be successful. And he would come here and tell you the same thing. Angelica graduated last year and she worked incredibly hard. She had 3 to 4 hours of homework per night. She took all the AP classes, and she worked incredibly hard and at times I almost felt sorry. Geez, you're not really enjoying your senior year, but she came out of it and said, I think I'm going to be ready for going on to college.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: It's okay. I feel as if I've been prepared for it. Part of that is the schedule that we put into place. Was it hard on the adults that are

[8558-30] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: starts up, get together with the teachers, bring them in, sit down, find out the issue and work this thing out. Could you picture if your child was a junior last year under one schedule and the senior this coming year under a different schedule?
TEXT> And then how are you going to explain that to a college when you're applying to a college, you think we're doing the kids good service on that one. We are not. Can you picture a freshman coming into the school who's going to now be under a different schedule and has no idea the classes they're going to be taking, but they know that the results of the old schedule  are terrible and under-performed. Are we serving our kids well in that one? You can't allow this to go forward. It's not going to happen legally. It's going to happen by you and the teachers. Find a way to get together, have an emergency meeting. If you can't have an emergency meeting, hold off on opening school. Just don't open it under a new schedule one more time. When the schedule you have there, as Einstein has said, is trying to get different result out of exactly the same thing that was going on before. This is not this is not something that, you know, requires a lot of discussion and debate. The old one didn't work. People will ask, is a new one working? Becky will tell me.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: I'm absolutely certain that one year of data or one data point is not a trend. We don't know if it's working. What we know is the old one didn't

[8558-31] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: out of exactly the same thing that was going on before. This is not this is not something that, you know, requires a lot of discussion and debate. The old one didn't work. People will ask, is a new one working? Becky will tell me.
TEXT> I'm absolutely certain that one year of data or one data point is not a trend. We don't know if it's working. What we know is the old one didn't work and the new one is trying to work, and it hasn't placed something like an intervention period, which everyone believes is exactly the thing that our kids need to have. We're throwing that out also. Board, you have got to find a way to get together with the teachers. You've got to find a way to simmer down to what the 2 or 3 key issues are in here that driving people nuts, or causing issues, or causing angst and fix it before you go in in the next school year starts at the end of this month, you've got to find a way to retain the schedule and not go back to one that has already failed. Pretty clear.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Anybody else? Public comment? Seeing none, we'll close. Public comment. Discussion items. We have updates. Claremont Summer Food Service Program.

[8558-34] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: it's important to note that the official poverty rate in 2009 was 14.3%. That's up from 13.2 in 2008. The number of people in poverty in 2009 represents 43.6 million, is the largest number in the 51 years in which poverty estimates have been published.
TEXT> So I think what's critical to note is this that  many volunteers and with the work of of local agencies and many of these volunteers or teachers or administration and parents  every day are committing themselves to assist what is described as food insecure children. That's almost beyond imagination, food insecure, but it's very real. And so I think I just want to compliment and really send accolades to to the adults involved with this. Supporting our children and providing  them the issuance of nourishing meals during the month of June, July and through August.  A free healthy lunch for every child living in Claremont. That should be a given. That should be a guarantee. That should be something that every child shouldn't even think about. Not so. So we can talk about the Claremont some of food service program,  and you might see it posted on some of our schools and billboards. But I just wanted to remind you of the great things that are happening for the benefit of our children. Thank you Brian.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. All right. Moving forward. Do you have any questions for the superintendent? Do we have. Any updated.

[8558-45] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (ASR 'Michael Neil', 'Mr. O'Neal'; spell | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: and his background in business as well as construction. I think we did quite well for the money available. And Mike is going to be the board as to where we are with Maple Leaf. Mr. O'Neill. We are currently in the process doing RFP.
TEXT> I had. Broached several roofing companies in June with a deadline of the end of August, and basically 75% of the company said they could. They couldn't quote it because they were concerned about getting it done in the heat of the summer with that kind of deadline. So I'm putting it out again. It's going to be out. There's going to be a meeting there next Thursday to go over the project with interested parties. That's going to go in the paper this weekend. It'll be on the website and then we will have to do it after school starts. But we already worked on a plan for that. That shouldn't really provide too much of a problem for the students.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: They're going to work. Would they end up working during the school day or.

[8558-85] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (ASR 'Michael Neil', 'Mr. O'Neal'; spell | 2016-08-03
PREV> Michael O'Neill: but I think we need to make a decision on whether or not we want to do what ourselves or send it out, because it's not fair to the employees, to Carol, to to the other people, if it's our desire to send this out.
TEXT> As well as it's not fair to the students, if we feel like we can improve their choices  without costing the taxpayer money. My concern becomes they don't get the milk bid. There's no guarantee of pricing right now. We're guaranteed we're pretty much operating at a at a break even. Like I said, it was about a $3,000 surplus in 1516 and about a $5,000 deficit in 1415. Those numbers I don't I can't guarantee those with a with a vendor because the vendor is basically going to say any, any shortage will have to be funded through a general fund transfer. So, you know, that's the, you know, the information and I'm not sure what the basis. And I know this is a new board. What the basis of the wanting to make the change before I started was. And I know that it's something that as I said, I'm disappointed that I haven't followed up on, but I think it's time to have a discussion about where we want to go with this. Thank you.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: I know that one of the main reasons that we wanted to look at an outside source was the types of meals and the food that was provided for students.

[8558-94] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Carol. Could you please repeat the question? Becky?
TEXT> Yes. I noticed on your paper that you have soups, chilies, charters, etc.. My question is, are these going to be fresh made utilizing that state of the art kitchen that Stevens High School now has? Is the kitchen going to be used as a kitchen to make fresh food for the students to eat?
NEXT> Carol Gregory: Yes they have. Becky, I've already bought the soup pots and everything for them to be put out, and there will be the fresh charter, the soups, the chilies. We

[8558-96] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Carol Gregory: needs to do, and you know, in a little more. And the improvements on there with your approval and Middleton's approval. This is what we would like to do and keep making them throughout the year to bring it up to a top a think.
TEXT> Right. So we're going to try to get away from the frozen heat up in the oven and put out there for the students.
NEXT> Carol Gregory: Yes. And also to any other company that you go with, any private companies. They also use frozen items to.

[8558-98] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Carol Gregory: Yes. And also to any other company that you go with, any private companies. They also use frozen items to.
TEXT> Right? I  know that, but I also know that that was one of the big issues about our lunches for our students was that they were heat up and put out there.
NEXT> Carol Gregory: And I do have a.

[8558-103] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Brant' (ASR)) | 2016-08-03
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> I know that some of the numbers we've seen previously was there was a, a I don't wanna say discrepancy, but you saw a huge fall off from free and reduced lunch going from the middle school to the high school, and there was some talk of possibly a POS system that might help kind of capture some of that back. Is there any, where we with that? Because I think that's important. You know, just looking at those numbers, there's some. So when they get to the high school, for some reason, some of those kids are, you know, kind of falling off the map there. And, I like I said, there was a discussion about a POS system that might be able to help capture that back, or.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think that's something.

[8558-133] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Unidentified: We did.
TEXT> And I think that needs to be taken into consideration. If we're here about students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It ought.

[8558-181] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Chris Irish: little tidbit. And it wasn't to sit up here and compromise my convictions and to sit up here and be afraid, because people keep wanting to tell us what to do when we know in a heart of hearts, it's the wrong thing to do.
TEXT> And he said it. He could not have. He just couldn't have said it any better. Can't. We can't go backwards. We can't continue to do what we know is bad for our kids. And he reminded me of that. You know, my daughter is in her second year. She did well in her first year, but mainly because she was part of Catch the Wave and kids that had the AP courses and had a little bit of extra special help. They did. They did fine, but they all said the same thing. We were adequately prepared.  I'm sorry, but I don't want my kid to be adequately anything. I want them to have the best possible everything that they can have, especially when it comes to their education and, you know, can't, is it? There is no dot, dot dot. There is no. But let's wait and see what happens. None of that is there to me. So my original motion, I've added some words to it and it's different than what I when I sat down. But Richard, I want to thank you because what you said reminded me of. Really? I want to cut to the chase. I don't care what the lawyer says.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I don't care what the state says. I don't care what people that disagree with this say. We know one thing. We know it wasn't working. We were failing our

[8558-182] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Chris Irish: I've added some words to it and it's different than what I when I sat down. But Richard, I want to thank you because what you said reminded me of. Really? I want to cut to the chase. I don't care what the lawyer says.
TEXT> I don't care what the state says. I don't care what people that disagree with this say. We know one thing. We know it wasn't working. We were failing our kids. We know that. So why in God's name would we deliberately make decisions that are going to keep us in that situation, and downward spiral in the hopes that maybe we can all work together to fix it later, when we know full well that  there's two sides to this issue, both sides can end this immediately. Yep. We can end it by saying, yeah, we'll just stick with what's failing and move on. They could end it by saying, you know, we care best for the kids. We'll drop our, our, our position and work with you. One side wants to work, one side doesn't. I'm not going to let that stop me from continuing to fight the fight and do the right thing. We just can't, is the word. So I am therefore making the motion that I move, that we do not comply with the PLO, be ruling and continue to move forward with the A b scheduling while pursuing an appeal of the ruling. It's that simple. I'm not kicking this can down the road anymore. Need a second? Okay.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Do we have a second?

[8558-189] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: We need to kind of continue with appeal and I think try to work with work with the teachers and to get the right schedule.
TEXT> I do think that if we go back to. The 4x4, I don't think we're going to get away from it that easy.  And, you know, we heard some of those numbers, you know, Richard, thank you. Thank you for that. Because hearing them, hearing them again really, really sort of solidifies  how bad that schedule was failing our kids.  And really I've got I've got a hard time. I've got a hard time going back to something that I know that's shown that wasn't doing our kids any good. It just wasn't it wasn't working. You know, regardless of of whatever decision came out of the the PLA be. I it's it's not the right thing. And for me, I've got to do the right thing. And this is about those high school students. It's about not going backwards. It's about making sure when they graduate that they're prepared. You know, that there's there's a lot of stuff out there that they can be doing. And if we go back to the 4x4, it's it could be years before we could figure out a way to, to move off of it again.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: One of the but if.

[8558-196] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Know, you wait until if they gave us the right to do, we would be able to do it the following school year. Right.
TEXT> The point. What do you tell those kids coming into this year? I'm sorry. We'll get you next time you go through high school. There is no next time. My kid got one shot at it and she's one of the lucky ones. Richard's kids got not lucky. He's right word. They earned it. And the teachers earned what? These kids.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: But they don't. We don't know. It was because of the schedule. We don't.

[8558-198] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: But they don't. We don't know. It was because of the schedule. We don't.
TEXT> Know that the correlation that this schedule is going to be the difference because we've only had it for one. But the fact that here's the fact, you get four years in high school, we're taking a year away from the kids coming in. Now. If we change, we're taking a year of their education. As an educator. That's got to mean a lot.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: But my.

[8558-200] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brent Ferland: But my.
TEXT> One year of their high school education, one quarter of their education, we are taking away, turning it upside down, saying, hopefully this doesn't screw up the rest of your life and your chances of getting into college. One quarter, they get four years. We're messing with that one year because some arbitrary entity says this, and the entity that's supposed to work with us and care about our kids is saying, don't talk to us, just do this.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: My, my, my concern about this whole thing is, I think the discussion get sidetracked a little bit because we want to go to an A, B, and we're locked

[8558-208] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brent Ferland: saying and I'm all for that. But what I'm saying is to to give them the middle finger and say, you know what? We're going to we're going to stick to our a, B, that's what we're that's what we're going to do. If we.
TEXT> If we're going to defend the kids, we're going to stand up for the children, we're going to be here for what we got put on this board for for the children to make those decisions for children. When you're looking at taking a bunch of children and ripping their schedules all apart, putting them back into a system that didn't work, all for the glory of a bunch of people that are adults bickering. Okay, we just sat here and discussed about baking food better in our schools. Why are we not? This is redundant.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: There are there.

[8558-216] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brent Ferland: You don't want to play by the rules.
TEXT> It's not it's not about playing by the rules. It's about saying to every single person here, what are we here for? To have a bunch of people tell us what to do. That already is a challenge because technically, according to what I've understood, they're not allowed to tell the school board about that. So that's a whole game into itself that needs to be addressed. Number one. Number two, we are here discussing food and how to make it better and give good lunches and healthier food for these children. But yet we can't decide that. We know that. And you just said it. I'm all for in a B system. Yes. And you know what? Sometimes when you're doing the right thing, you're going to stand alone. You're going to break the rules, and you're going to have to put up with a little bit of backlash. But you know what's in the end, the benefit of the end. Those children that are going to come out of this school ten times better, just from the reports that have come out of  what that class program did to what this class class program did. And I'm going to tell you right now, it is ridiculous to think that we can't be strong enough to be the first in the community, the first in the city, the state to say, look, we have our children's intentions in mind first.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: To say that a schedule is the make or break of a child failing in school, I think really is a disservice to any student. Okay, well, because a student

[8558-224] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: It's Becky. What do you got?
TEXT> I want to just talk about a couple of things that are going, what I feel is part of this discussion. I know that at the same very close to the same time that the 4x4 went to the A, B, we changed from norm based grading to standard based grading.  And I remember when you talk about students having to go through a very difficult time for four years and you can't tell me and some of your students were in that situation where the grading system was changed every single year until it got to where it is right now. And because of that, we had to say, okay, what is it that we really want? I agree that the a B could be the best way to go, but I also have to agree with Patrick and Brant that we need to do it the right way, just like we did it the right way with the grading system. We said, we have a problem, let's look at it, step back and make it right. And so I feel that that's what this is our opportunity to do that, to make it right. And when we talk about failures and things like that, I know that under the norm based grading that there were lots of failures. And that was one of the main reasons that there was a real push to go to standards based grading so that students could be successful.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: And so that also ties into the scheduling. And just like Brant said, if you're saying that a student can make a make or break it, by the way, that

[8558-229] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Before we get here from Frank.
TEXT> I have the court. I have the floor. Thank you. I worked for a superintendent one time. Told me he said never look for a univariate answer to a multivariate problem. And that's what Brant just said a minute ago. He may not have known he said that, but he said that,  and, we could. And sort of picking out backing on what Becky just said,  you could go on and find a lot of different villains that could be the cause of failure. And I'll give you a little list. And I think they're all probably more valid than an administrative arrangement in which kids take courses. Let's talk about attendance rates. What are they? Homeless rate from page of the paper. Educational level of parents, income of parents. Drug use among students and parents. Transient nature of our population.  Preparedness of students coming into the high school. Quality. Quality of instruction in the high school. Our kids being engaged. We're still doing things the way we did in the 1800s and incarceration rates of parents.  None of those are any. All of those are probably more valid indicators than an administrative arrangement, whether they're in a a B day or a 4x4 block day. You take any one of those and you are going to find some major, major impactors, any one of them.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: On student achievement, we have all of those here in Claremont, every one of them. So to hang all of this on block schedule is ludicrous. That's why I've been

[8558-230] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: any. All of those are probably more valid indicators than an administrative arrangement, whether they're in a a B day or a 4x4 block day. You take any one of those and you are going to find some major, major impactors, any one of them.
TEXT> On student achievement, we have all of those here in Claremont, every one of them.  So to hang all of this on block schedule is ludicrous. That's why I've been against it from day one. When you start making a saying it's the schedule causing all of this, I'm not buying it. Well, look.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We've had a lot of time to discuss. And really, you say that kids. Kids have already said that they feel like they weren't being challenged.

[8558-239] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Think and I.
TEXT> But I think that income level has a huge effect on student achievement.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Well, great. So you're going to you're going to blame the families for us not providing. Education. Blaming and saying. It's.

[8558-242] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (cluster also carries Vice Chair Chris Ir | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: A factor into into the
TEXT> We know. We know that the kids would go a,  a year and a half without having a math class, and we expect them to do. Well, that's, that's that's insane. That is insane. And that's what going to the a B was meant to fix. We all know that if you go a year and a half without doing some sort of skill, you're going to lose it. You try being an EMT and you don't. You use your skills for a year and a half. You're going to lose them. All right? This isn't riding a bike. You don't do those skills, you will lose them. So I think that the schedule, the 4x4 is a large problem with why kids were failing. That's why we moved to have kids take year long classes. All right.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I, I would like to say this. I don't feel that by saying what? Chris motion that we are breaking the law.

[8558-245] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: I don't.
TEXT> Either actually pursuing our rights as a board to go forward, challenging this one person, making decisions for our entire community. Unacceptable. We are not breaking any laws. If anything, we are teaching our fundamentals right here to our children to be better, to try to improve and try to make things happen. And you know what? Here's the difference. Either we go with the A B schedule and challenge them, or we have to sit  on the no. We go with a B schedule. Then that's the one right? The right one. Or we have to sit on a block schedule. You are going to disrupt. These children are already socially struggling because we are in a low income, because we are in a drug infested place, because we have all these things socially and we do not even look at these social aspects. But I will tell you that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Will tell you that the most important thing is the best interest of the children, because that's why we're here. We're not breaking laws. We're showing people that we're strong

