[16530-43] Noelle | Stevens High School student, Youth & Government delegation (first name | 2025-05-07
PREV> Aubrey Herzog: that every student should be involved in. Not to mention, it's the most fun weekend I've ever had. Thank you for your time today, and I hope other students learn to love using government as much as I do, and I'll pass it over. Noel.
TEXT> Okay. Hi, guys. So my name. Is Noel, and I transferred to Stevens this year. I'm a junior, and even though I transferred this year, I've been involved in YAG since I was a freshman, where I was part of the House of Representatives freshman year and press corps my sophomore year. This year I was looking to try something new and with encouragement from Miss Chesney, Miss Menard, and members of my delegation, I became the Senate clerk. This is something I never would have done without their encouragement. And youth and government has really just taught me to step outside of my comfort zone, while also teaching me so many things about debate and parliamentary procedure and my own political beliefs. It's really just a great way to get involved.  I'm a student who's involved in a lot of things at school, but youth and government is one of the things that I look forward to most. Especially since I am such a passionate person, and it allows us to talk about things that we care about. This year I wrote two bills, one about raising the New Hampshire minimum wage over a ten year time span. I think it's in the bill book. And then one about increasing New Hampshire's public education funding, because it's not great.
NEXT> Noelle: And that's something I'm really passionate about. And with the help of my delegation, I felt confident about my opinions and knowledge, which helped me. I didn't win the Senate

[16530-51] Jill Chastenay | Youth & Government advisor / teacher, Stevens High School (self-identi | 2025-05-07
PREV> Carter: It was. It was my first time.
TEXT> I'm sorry. A favorite of the kids down in Concord. Other than the works is Dos Amigos. And I'm pretty sure that's where they went for the burritos. Do you guys want to know anything else?
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Do any of you see yourselves continuing working in government as a result of the years you've done this? I mean, Governor Herzog has a lovely sound to it.

[16530-64] Jill Chastenay | Youth & Government advisor / teacher, Stevens High School (self-identi | 2025-05-07
PREV> Mary Henry: Yes.
TEXT> Yeah. And that's that's one of the most important things that I press upon the kids. I actually I showed the video to my freshman, which I'm not going to lie, my freshman right this year have been challenging.  I  have them just for advisory. And I showed it to them  yesterday. I think it was, and it was one of the few times that I've seen those freshmen calm down with rapt attention. And then we had a very good discussion afterwards. And I might have another recruit right from my own advisory. So. Good. We'll see what happens.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Nice. Thank you for the work.

[16530-126] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; SRVRTC Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Mike McCosker: a part of that team is always the parent. A parent always has a seat at the table. They are valued team member. And they're really the experts in the, in their child and that student. So, you know, it's sometimes it's a daunting process.
TEXT> What are the things one of the questions that was submitted to you that you addressed in this and maybe for the public, you can answer the question.  Sometimes  during these  IEP evaluations and I'm not sure that's the right terminology, but, all services are  offered to the student and parents, and the parent might think that seems frivolous. It seems extra. It seems unneeded. Unnecessary. How would you address that comment?
NEXT> Mike McCosker: It's kind of a loaded comment, but, you know, the IEP team is always going to make a. Proposal, a recommendation based on data. I mean, probably the two biggest

[16530-127] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Candace Crawford: question. Sometimes during these IEP evaluations and I'm not sure that's the right terminology, but, all services are offered to the student and parents, and the parent might think that seems frivolous. It seems extra. It seems unneeded. Unnecessary. How would you address that comment?
TEXT> It's kind of a loaded comment, but, you know, the IEP team is always going to make a. Proposal, a recommendation based on data.  I mean, probably the two biggest services, speech and language and then occupational therapy. But a parent always has the right to refuse a service. So we could offer an IEP with, boy, we think your child needs speech and language services, or we think your child needs occupational therapy. But me as a parent could say, I think my child is really good in these ways. So I'm going to decline those services. But I still think they need specifically designed instruction to be able to access their grade level curriculum and to progress in the curriculum. Because remember, the point of an IEP is always to help the student progress in the curriculum,  with the ultimate goal of high school graduation, that that's the goal.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I think that's important to keep in mind.

[16530-131] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 (onset fragment attached to follow | 2025-05-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: bit of speech. He would have been getting all those services and taxpayers would have been paying for that. So I think, you know, we've kind of honed in on that, and I'm glad we have and the appropriate services for the appropriate need. Right.
TEXT> And. You know, one of the things,  you know,  I'm a taxpayer, not in the city of Claremont, but in another city. You know, I'm very conscious of the fact that taxpayers in New Hampshire  are bearing the burden of special education costs. So whether it's my city or your city, you know, I want to make sure those dollars are used appropriately. But and. I'll  often get called and say, well, we want you to make a decision. My job isn't to make the decision for what this child needs. The team is to make the decision. And then I need to look at the data to make sure they're making the right decision. So I've been pushing back a lot on teams. Is is it appropriate? Probably the biggest. And you mentioned one of the biggest ones is bussing. Everybody wants their kid to have bussing.  Well my kid lives half a. Mile from the school and they have anxiety and they can't get up. And  I'm exaggerating some of this okay. So and so we want you to bussing know there half a mile from school.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Specialized bussing is for, you know, students who have those severe moderate disabilities. For those students who have safety concerns, for those students, who may have physical disabilities where they

[16530-132] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Mike McCosker: kid to have bussing. Well my kid lives half a. Mile from the school and they have anxiety and they can't get up. And I'm exaggerating some of this okay. So and so we want you to bussing know there half a mile from school.
TEXT> Specialized bussing is for, you know, students who have those severe moderate disabilities. For those students who have safety concerns, for those students,  who may have physical disabilities where they can't walk or they don't have mobility, it's not a convenience thing.  I'm oversimplifying it a little bit. But, you know, we're we're trying to push back and be mindful of is it meeting the law, the requirements of the law, not making everybody tickling everyone's fancy? Eye?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. No, I think. One of the things that, you know, the two of us have discovered and justice stuff, looking at the IEP and it happens all the places

[16530-134] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Chris Pratt: see, you'll see services in there made sense for it, a middle school or the elementary to the middle school. But it doesn't necessarily we it makes sense at that age level to still be offering them, you know, guided recess or something like that.
TEXT> But it does get to that levels where we're trying to make sure that we're not overlooked. We're not overlooking anything that could cost us money down the road, or even impede the learning of the student to make progress in the least restrictive environment. Similar to what what you saw? Are you going to throw everything that you know in you want to get it? The parent ultimately has the ultimate decision of what they're going to do. We've seen all spectrums that they will take it all. But you also see some with the educators of the building would notice that there's something there that we want to refer to, special ed, you know, in testing and stuff. You do have parents that refuse. No, I don't want anything to do with that. And that's their right. But it's our job to make sure that we're doing our due diligence at every level. And what we've seen over the years is that we really want to really spend the time looking at that. We're able to stay within compliance of that IEP way it's written in some cases, not just here, but ever places for out of compliance. Sometimes it's because the due diligence wasn't done to make sure that it reflects their current stage of where they are in the learning process, right.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Just as a follow up to that, I think that, the public in general, doesn't have an understanding, about the I what and I mean, I've learned this myself, when

[16530-137] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Mike McCosker: change much. But you go from elementary to middle school. You get some changes. You go from middle school to high school, usually some big changes. So you're always. So every year annually there's an IEP review. Did I hit all three of your questions?
TEXT> Yeah. And then once they hit the third year based whether, you know, it doesn't matter what we see by third year, we have to by law to do a total reevaluation of the students, you know, IEP it's like you're starting all over again and you and then that's when you have the meeting with the parents where you're evaluated in the team recommends we keep these goals, but we might want to take these out and add these in. And so every three years it's a whole new you're looking at it again with a, with a whole new lens.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So I'm speaking from some experience that they had the goal on the IEP, which is more of a long term goal, the clinical team than the OT speech have.

[16530-146] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: So everybody has that form in that Google link you sent it.
TEXT> It's on. It's on our special ed Google Drive. So  and when we're not getting many calls now, but if we, we were in the year, well, we this kid needs to go out. Well, where's the data. Where's you need to fill out the form. And most of it we have pushed back on like no, you need to do a better job with might be RTI. It might be, behavioral management type stuff.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So they want to update it because it refers to see 24 on it.

[16530-166] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Chris Pratt: It's phonetics. It's a lot of things.
TEXT> There's so much minutia behind it. Right? I mean, and it's. I mean. Intelligibility becomes a big part of it, but it can be. We were talking about a student several weeks ago, and I think I can share this without giving away any kind of like identify she has. No one can understand her. And so it took us speech pathologist to sit down and spend time with her to figure out that her entire speech issue is from a huge overbite, and it's never going to be fixed without the parents actually taking the child for orthodontists or the Don show, right? But but. It. Without that expert at the table, we're not going to figure that out.  Sometimes it's about students learning, Receptive and expressive language.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: It's. It's processing that comes into place. That that is a speech and language.

[16530-210] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Mary Henry: And, Frank, I want to tell you that, you know, this year we have focused in on a lot of this stuff. So it's going to take time for us to get through those weeds. I get what you're saying. Completely get where you're.
TEXT> I'm advocating on behalf of the taxpayers.
NEXT> Mary Henry: I'm with you. I understand I'm a taxpayer in town, so I completely get it. And the last thing I want to do is pay for something I don't have

[16530-231] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: It's like and now we have a curriculum and we have assessment so we can monitor student progress. But it's the tier two where we're not.
TEXT> That's why we get into late Excel at the high school. More benchmarking, more data to show that, you know, because like I said, if you have the tier one stuff, the tier one two tier two is just a little. But you know, you can still do it in the classroom, but you need a little more. Right? And so that's what we one of the things we have been working on. I know Michael. Michael Kosky has been working on looking at tier two interventions because and it's not out of the ordinary. It's like a lot of times who are the ones who usually forgotten are the kids in the middle. So we have that. And so now each school they're building on their tier two, and we're lucky we have technology to help us do that to okay.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you.

[16530-237] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Chris Pratt: doesn't continue to happen because the money's not there. We don't have the s or any money anymore. Everyone was happy to have the s of money. But guess what? Those of us who are still here afterwards, it's going to be a curse too.
TEXT> Okay, so my last I'm just going to make some comments, at this point. So I'm going to disagree very strongly with you on what what the goal should be for special ed students.  You had stated that the goal is graduation. Me from my opinion, I think our goal is the not needing special ed services anymore.  I think independence is the goal,  not graduation. I mean, graduation will happen, but if we're let me I'll read my statement. So the board has heard in the past and the I,  information you have provided us as clear that high quality instruction as a tier one intervention is critical to student success. And you pointed out that our, we have one of the actually, we have one of the lowest poverty rates in highest poverty rates in the state, with the lowest poverty rate in the United States, which is interesting. But our poverty rate is comparable to rate. Is that comparable to that of the greater U.S.?  So I don't think special ed is the answer to to poverty. I think it's good tier one instruction. We've heard that. We've heard that that's why we're investing in coaches. That's where investing in curriculum, because it isn't about special. It's about good instruction.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And so my my pushback is that we really want to have kids that are independent. And, and I think our intervention to this point, and I think Chris would

[16530-486] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair, Claremont School Board (presiding; Chair Heat | 2025-05-07
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Subcommittee.
TEXT> But next thing under other business is a brief discussion. We had the youth risk behavior survey that went out to the kids at high school.  And we heard from some parents about it. There was no opt out option for that. So, Just wanted to have a brief discussion on that and whether we need to have this on on an agenda. I think it was miss Porter was willing to, you know, come and talk on that subject. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So to this which channel nine news tonight is I'm watching that for everybody. Talking about this very thing. And I think the concerns that parents have are they. There

[16530-487] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: no opt out option for that. So, Just wanted to have a brief discussion on that and whether we need to have this on on an agenda. I think it was miss Porter was willing to, you know, come and talk on that subject. So.
TEXT> So to this which channel nine news tonight is I'm watching that for everybody. Talking about this very thing.  And I think the concerns that parents have  are they. There are some kids, I think that are fairly naive and fairly innocent kids out there. And Youth Behavior survey suggests, suggests risky behavior to them that they would never have thought of had it not been for the risk for the for the survey, for example. Oh, I didn't know I could offer. I didn't know I could do that. So it's actually the parent concerns, I think, are the fact that it suggests risky behaviors that the students were  prior to that were unaware of.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, I think they're very valid concerns. And all I can say is that I did follow up with the high school administration and inadvertently, the opt out did not

[16556-132] Matt Upton | District Legal Counsel | 2025-05-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: What's up to this degree?
TEXT> I there are some districts that have had it to this degree. But I'm not sure without having personal knowledge of the, their reasons for deficits. I can't speak to that, but I can just say that there was a lot of inefficiency, and I know that I personally had write letters, requesting reimbursement for things like nano touch technology that was purchased on behalf of districts to be placed on surfaces so that viruses were not being transmitted. And the difficulty we had in getting qualified reimbursements for those kind of expenditures.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Did that happen in Claremont, too? Were you writing letters to clarify? I didn't.

[16580-6] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (his NH SAS/benchmark presentation; di | 2025-06-03
PREV> Mike Koski: grade almost get to the state. Average dotted line scores from last year. State average is up here. I do want to let you know that if we look at fourth grade Ela scores, the dotted line would have been this year's fifth grade class.
TEXT> And so you can see a big improvement through for those students via their fifth grade teachers and really improving their scores on that. Likewise, we see some areas where scores of fallen from from year to year. And so you can kind of follow the same cohort of students. So from from sixth grade last year to seventh grade. This year we see pretty big drop in those scores. But so we're not quite there yet with proficiency. But we are seeing some I guess, for lack of a better term, green sprouts that are showing some promise.  And I would, I, I think we can credit some of this because I'm not going to put the particular teachers up here, but I can see the teacher class data and it's it's sporadic. There are some teachers who students are at the state average or above. There's other classes that are pretty significantly behind. And looking at the names and seeing who's in PD and, and things like that, we I can see a connection between the teachers who have kind of embraced the professional development, taking it to heart. And it's showing up in, in changed instruction and  improved scores. But overall across the district, we're just we're still in a sporadic growth pattern. Any questions about English, Mike. Question in general.  Time frame was this testing? This was all  in  early May. Was considered in the late or early mid May. It's considered.
NEXT> Mike Koski: In of year testing. Yes. Yeah. These are all our end of year schools. Yep. Yes. Okay. I'd like to compare. Here's our I ready reading scores at the end

[16580-32] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair (recognized by the Chair as 'Mr. patron') | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. patron, yeah.
TEXT> I'm sure you can't. Probably can't tease it up. I know at the high school, this is the first year we've gone back to that change in the schedule or English, math, you know, the year long, instead of being split up and losing that learning in between, you know, good point at that time. So the other thing I think could be helpful at the elementary would be the,  hot topic of restructure, I think restructuring. So all grade levels are at the same school. So maybe you have that science teacher that loves science and engages the kids in that science teacher can teach, you know, they'll can really put that passion into  the whole fourth grade. So I that's where I think one benefit of restructuring would be helpful.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So yeah, we talked about that at nauseam a few years ago. The value of having the single. Yes, sir.

[16580-82] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-06-03
PREV> Mike Koski: is too much? And so, you know, we can be happy to take direction from the board if, if we you feel like we need more focus on our state test results and want us to start to spend more time on that, that would.
TEXT> Well, I. Personally think it's critical and I think it's critical for for two reasons. Number one, because we want our kids to learn. But number two, it's also a marketing tool. And we struggle with this district to attract families.
NEXT> Mike Koski: It is for many people, the only thing if you're not in the district or in the school system, it's maybe your only point of information about.

[16580-88] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-06-03
PREV> Mike Koski: And and so a new evaluation system would require some training for the, the administrators who who are instituting that, not that that's a barrier, but it's, it's just a piece that needs to be done.
TEXT> Is it a financial barrier or is it a cultural barrier not to have? To Mr. Madden's point, the SAT prep courses,  is it a budgeting issue or is it just something that our district has not valued in the past and therefore we haven't supported it and supported the time?  Because I think if we as a district show that we feel this is important, the kids will.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I mean, I can't answer, you know, a lot of those questions, only being here for for years, I don't know what the importance was put on Saturday testing, prior

[16580-92] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-06-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: Because because you have sets you have to pay for proctors. You have to, you know, so there is money tied to it.
TEXT> Well, I'm not saying just a practice test,  but to just have an opportunity for kids to learn how to take these SAT tests and to go over the basic, you know, when my daughter and probably you were taking when you took your SATs, we got the book and, you know, it was just, I think just having teachers in a classroom with the kids, with the book during advisory, going over it. And, I mean, there may be a budget friendly way.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: There is a budget friendly and it's it's it's very doable because I, we, you know, we can say, as an administration, I can say we want, you know, kids,

[16580-109] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Howard.
TEXT> A brief follow up to that.  Obviously through somebody who's doing something egregious and it's failing our students, that's one thing. But,  I would also just be curious, and this is probably a lot harder of a data point to find.  You know, if there are two second grade teachers, two thirds of teachers, whatever, maybe one of them ends up having to work with troubled students more often. Maybe they're seen as some sort of way.  So before too quickly jumping into pointing fingers at an individual teacher, I just want teachers who may be watching to think we're trying to find out people and say, you know, whatever,  because it can be that throughout years you might have three years in a row where you would just have struggling students, whether your principal and your groups are, you know, those are being assigned to you with or without your choice. And there might be cases where teachers feel that way, but their students excel. So it could go either way. But I just think that's an important point when we're looking at data about student success and their relation to teachers.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And so just I mean, if you look at last year's compared to this year's same grade level, you can see that kind of a within a class. Yeah. And

[16580-110] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced at the meeting as 'Assista | 2025-06-03
PREV> Loren Howard: or without your choice. And there might be cases where teachers feel that way, but their students excel. So it could go either way. But I just think that's an important point when we're looking at data about student success and their relation to teachers.
TEXT> And so just I mean, if you look at last year's compared to this year's same grade level, you can see that kind of a within a class. Yeah. And so there's, there's other factors that impact students scores in your class.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: You just have what. I do have one more question I do too. Go ahead. I'll go back to you. Is there a is there a mechanism in place where

[16580-122] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced at the meeting as 'Assista | 2025-06-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: The teachers are aware of the gaps with the students. And you know, that's not for us. I'm just saying yeah.
TEXT> Yeah. So in particular, the case managers of those students, can can look at their students scores, the classroom teacher, and then they can work together to address those gaps.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And again, they're the subcategories. Correct. Okay. Thank you.

[16580-133] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-03
PREV> Mike Koski: we're seeing a lot of the growth among students. Teachers who've been here for three years just paid it in PD learning skills. Each year. They add on new skills in their classroom, and they're just improving. And their students are improving as a result.
TEXT> And for a lot of these kids, relationships are so important.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Oh, there's another piece. Yes.

[16580-135] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-03
PREV> Mike Koski: Oh, there's another piece. Yes.
TEXT> Yeah. The teachers who are here for three plus years, they've established relationships with their kids, whether they're in that grade level of the next grade level. And through that relationship, they established trust in their able to get more out of the kids, you know, every year for, you know, for if a student is starting fresh with a new teacher, it takes a half a year to build that relationship, to really know their learning style and you know how to get them where they need to be. So,  I think, you know, turnover for whatever reason, definitely plays a huge role in, students achievement.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Just a quick story. We had a fifth grade student misbehaving pretty badly in class. First grade teacher came up and spoke to him, and he was fine because he

[16580-140] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced at the meeting as 'Assista | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any other questions for Mr. Kosky? We're going to have more opportunity to talk about program effectiveness and budget issues. The next agenda item.
TEXT> Last slide. This is the SAT scores. A little bit awkward of a graph I apologize. Students who are scoring below expectation here. The  national averages for SAT scores.  We have 50% ish of our students there.  We have a little over 10% scoring above that, but still a good chunk below in both math and in English. So our combined scores  are If you look across the states,  we are a state that tests everybody. Not all states do that. So you'll see states like Alabama and Nebraska and their in their 1200s for a combined score.  Where we're in the 1050 range.  But a lot of that is selection of who gets to take the test. And then other states. So anyway, we nationally score as a state above the national average, but, we as a district are  a little bit below that right now.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next item on the agenda segways neatly into Mr. Presentation. It's program effectiveness and impact on the budget. Superintendent Pratt will

[16580-146] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay.
TEXT> You know, we tried to make it happen for next year, but like I said, it was a it wasn't fair to, you know, I, you know, after hearing them out, after I said this is what we're doing and hearing about it was it wasn't really fair to put them in the position where their skill set lies in middle school and high school to say, guess what? You're moving to elementary.  But it was put out next year would be the, you know, the final year that we will, you know, for coaches for the middle school and high school, we are going to move them one to each elementary school, because I think that's where we're going to get the the biggest, the largest impact on student learning. You know, some of the test scores showed that.  We're not saying that the effectiveness of there's not a need for coaches at the middle school and high school, but I think that falls more on the administration and the teachers to work  with the students with the curriculum coordinator.  Coaches improve teaching practices,  leading to better student outcomes.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And that's that we've been trying to focus on, remember, we've been trying to fill a coaching position for the last year and a half. You know, we've we've budgeted

[16580-150] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: of the classroom. They're just not out there. And so we're doing everything we can to, support each other with what we currently currently have. You know, but, you know, I think all this ties into we were talking earlier at the policy subcommittee meeting.
TEXT> You know, we're really doing a great job catching up on all these policies and policies help drive what we're doing tremendously. We all know, you know, we have a lot of things that were outdated. We have things ones that we need to adopt, that we haven't had before. And that's a huge structure to put in place. So it gives the administration that we know this is how we have to follow the kids needs. I strongly feel that, you know, we we have to switch gears a little bit and we're we're pushing the curriculum. But one of the problems I see we might have is that for some of these students, we got to back off in the curriculum, get them socially, emotionally, just ready out of survival mode so they're in the right frame of mind to actually learn what we're trying to provide them. Because what we're seeing is that was a social worker or coach or administrator or teacher. We're pushing the academics and they're not there yet. We're putting the cart before the horse. So we have to do a better job identifying these kids and not willing to just keep pushing these academics on them until they're not in survival mode anymore.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: But, you know, all of these, they're all correlated. This is all domino effect where there's coaches, social workers, teachers, we're all trying to support each other in a time

[16580-151] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: We're pushing the academics and they're not there yet. We're putting the cart before the horse. So we have to do a better job identifying these kids and not willing to just keep pushing these academics on them until they're not in survival mode anymore.
TEXT> But, you know, all of these, they're all correlated. This is all domino effect where there's coaches, social workers, teachers, we're all trying to support each other in a time where,  we're sometimes we're trying to figure it out as we go. Because even if you take students five years ago to now, it looks totally different. It really does. And I can't say it's Covid.  I just think it's a society that we're we're in right now with, with a struggling or they're, they're born with, you know, different learning differences. It's just schools are changed so much in the past five years and people are doing it, are doing it because of the passion we have for kids. But also, you know, it gets frustrating not with the kids, but with what we're trying to do, not being totally prepared for the such rapid change in what we see from learners.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Patron.

[16580-194] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: want to get down to, is like, how can we support teachers on a regular basis, IT administrators on a regular basis? Because we're getting a really good quality of candidates like we wanted to see, but that's just half the battle we got them.
TEXT> How are we going to keep them? You know, it's like it's like if you have a business, you hire someone, you want to make sure that you keep them on. Because like we talked about, if we keep having turnover and we can't fix that problem, that's going to hurt relationships. Without relationships and trust, it's tough to fix the social, emotional and academics. So they're all intertwined. And I think that's what we all want. Board teaches everybody. And I think we're all on the same page, which is very exciting. But it's also been a long year, and there's been a lot of frustrations along the way too. And so I think we have a good plan going into next year. We have the strategic plan we'll continue to work on. We know we have  positions we have to fill, but people are constantly thinking outside the box board, including regards to how can we continue to raise the bar, to provide, you know, a education for kids, but also taking care of the kids,  knowing what they come to school with to?
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I just want to say. Thank you. I think we have the right man in the right seat with the right team that you're building. So thank you for being

[16580-290] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: packet is J I see l this is district internet access for students. This is also a new policy for Claremont. And it also has the attachment of the procedure. This is the one that that they're talking about trying to get it signed online.
TEXT> Yeah. That's the one we're hoping to do pretty much move forward. Any forms that parents and students need to sign off can do electronic.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: When when we have the new.

[16580-299] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (presents the Policy Subcommittee report) | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Howard seconds. All in favor of is there any discussion. All in favor of adopting policy J. I see l as presented by the policy subcommittee. Say a a saying no opposition policy is adopted. First reading.
TEXT> The next policy is JICK pupil safety and violence prevention. We actually right now have two separate policies. And this is consolidated into one. It's the New Hampshire School Board Association sample and refers primarily to bullying bullying and cyberbullying.  It includes consequences of false reporting for retaliation and to protect students from retaliation and making sure that everyone is aware of this policy that's in place. So it takes two separate policies one dealing with bullying when dealing with cyber bullying and consolidates them. And it's new for us.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Do we need to rescind the two.

[16580-386] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (presents the Policy Subcommittee report) | 2025-06-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: Yeah.
TEXT> Okay, good.  And one of the things we talked about at the policy meeting and then after the policy meeting with the superintendent myself, was  the way the policies, the newly adopted policies will impact the way the handbooks look, because there are features that are k to 12. And by having either a synopsis of the policy or the policy, however administrators want to do it. It's consistent across all three levels, and it's succinct. It's what we're doing. If it's a procedure, it's exactly what is happening within the district.  And part of my feedback was the academic  focus about who we are as a district  are.  And as Mr. Pratt said earlier, our strategic plan,  having all of that reflective front so that people who are entering our school district or who have been here know that we do  have a focus on success for all of our kids. And then the, the, the component about discipline has to be in there.  And because it's a lot of it is policy, it will be consistent across the grade levels. Would you say I represented that accurately?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, yeah. We just want to make sure that, parts of the strategic plant, our values, our core mission are then and ifs are there for people to see. And

[16602-114] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mary Henry: Okay. Anything else? So now.
TEXT> All right. Thank you Mary. Appreciate it. Thank you. Next item on the agenda is we were going to have a complete review of the handbooks for the elementary, Stevens High School and CMS.  But there have been some reconsideration on that. We have two new principals new to the district that should have an opportunity,  to have a say and input on these handbooks. But what the board felt was very important for the principals and leadership to know. And the board has been very clear with the executive leadership  at the saw that we've had, grave concerns for many years about the quality of the student handbooks across the district. And those issues have ranged from poor grammar or lack of attention to detail, accuracy of information, the usability of the handbooks, the cohesiveness of the policies related to attendance behavior or academic expectations and concerns related to the absence of  an honorable  board. Members also feel the quality of the handbooks do not accurately reflect reflect the district's commitment to high standards and a culture of excellence. So the expectation and a new policy will reflect that is that the handbooks will be reviewed  over the summer break or over the student summer break.  A new copies or revised copies will be compiled by mid-July and presented to the board  for approval or for request for revision  at the first meeting in August.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The board is also going to submit a letter to the Executive Office, to be distributed to those folks that are working on the handbooks to kind of give some

[16602-143] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Committee Chair | 2025-06-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: can, then a policy, in my opinion, is the best way to go. Developed collaboratively between, I don't know, Arlene, as the chair of the policy committee, what your thoughts are on that or if we want to have a discussion about it now or.
TEXT> I am not ready to have a discussion right now. I know that this board really wants to celebrate student  academic success, all kinds of achievements. We hear reports that wonderful things are happening at all the schools, and I've seen them with my eyes and we've heard them here. Having said that, I think each one of us who have spoken so far has talked about an emphasis and a focus on academic achievement that is very visible and tells our community that we are celebrating  our community. And so  I want to look to the administrative team, the building principals and superintendent, superintendent, everybody to come up with those procedures that will then be put into place and not just sitting in somebody's desk drawer. I think that's really what we're talking about here, is having everybody on the same page. We can set policy, but it's up to the people who are the educators, the professionals, to really have that focus and ensure that our kids are hearing it loud and clear.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: We're saying it. We're saying it publicly. Our families and our students need to hear it, and so they can be recognized for the work that they are doing. We

[16602-144] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Committee Chair | 2025-06-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: really what we're talking about here, is having everybody on the same page. We can set policy, but it's up to the people who are the educators, the professionals, to really have that focus and ensure that our kids are hearing it loud and clear.
TEXT> We're saying it. We're saying it publicly. Our families and our students need to hear it, and so they can be recognized for the work that they are doing. We now have curriculum. We have assessments. We have all the things coming into play. Let's take that step. Let's have our kids succeed. Let's have our graduation speeches, talk about the numbers of kids who have succeeded and are doing good things and are going on and continuing to be successful in trades and higher education. We should be celebrating all of that. And honor roll is one of those components, and there are many others.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Not putting words in Mr. Madden's mouth, but I think the issue has been, is that we have left it up to the professionals. And so so you're right. But

[16602-185] Maggie Gallagher | Consultant, District Management Group (remote presenter; first name as | 2025-06-18
PREV> Maggie Gallagher: a CEO from Kim is always doing work. And then myself, my colleague, Center College. Some of you all met by the moment also be joining us here shortly, are also working on that student support for education to work with and within our group.
TEXT> So in terms of familiar faces, there would be a lot of us around you seen before.  For those of you who haven't been as before, the board, I'm. Going. To really, really over in the district and before jump right into the actual special educator.  But we have been around since 2004. We partnered with hundreds of school districts across the US. And really, our goal is to bring transformational, transformational, sustainable development to education. Are the school districts of all time, all over the country  throughout the course of the last 20 plus years, including you all here, Claremont. So we'll be really excited to continue this partnership moving forward, really focusing in on a specific area of Maine for you all.  Our lead to achieve this in public education, like most business management and practices and education practices, and the way that we really appreciate that is first, by focusing at the top there you see a student outcomes really focusing on what students need to be successful, both academically but also as holistic school.
NEXT> Maggie Gallagher: We do that through resource allocation for being really strategic about how you all spend your time, your people, your dollars, but also putting systems in place that are going

[16602-201] Maggie Gallagher | Consultant, District Management Group (remote presenter; first name as | 2025-06-18
PREV> Maggie Gallagher: they have effectively developed schedules and they're using their time in a way that's going to serve students and not spend on things that to serve students. The third book is that we look really closely at is just the instructional practices that are happening.
TEXT> And so this isn't just for students with disabilities. This is something that really benefits all students. So how are school districts and schools approaching tier one practices that prioritize both academics and the. So again, not just for students with disabilities, but for all students, because we know kinds of supports that are needed, but disabilities are the kind of supports that really benefit all students within will send them. And then how is the district ensuring that those  with the highest needs are receiving instruction to really hurt his own staff? And then finally, the last bucket that we look at is making sure that any services the district is provided, a winning post wouldn't be.  So what kind of protocols and those to make sure that students are getting those services? And then how does the district ensure that students can receive the appropriate services and what we call the least environment? So again, thinking about how do we make sure that students can stay in their home school without a district to get those services? We know that is not only not great for students to have to leave their home communities, but also a real strain on resource as well.
NEXT> Maggie Gallagher: So when we're thinking about this study, these are really the four buckets that we're looking at the really understand. Where are the strengths in the district when it comes

[16602-206] Maggie Gallagher | Consultant, District Management Group (remote presenter; first name as | 2025-06-18
PREV> Maggie Gallagher: So on our end, responsible for facilitating all the reports of this group. We do all the analysis, we synthesize recommendations, but really we bring this back to the group to do the long term work and for the long term success of those opportunities.
TEXT> Well, methodology combines a lot of different things. So I'll go over a piece of couple of them. We do a combination of qualitative evidence that you see there on the left, and quantitative evidence that you see there on the right. We bring those all together to really think about what are going to be those highest leverage opportunities. We look at things like student outcomes we benchmark  to the nation, to the state, to local other districts. We look at financials to better understand how we might be spending your resources and how you might do that more and more effectively. And then, like I said, we bring that together to come to a very short list of high impact findings for you all. One thing I want to dig into a little bit, because what can we get a lot of questions on, is something pretty neat to us. A piece of for analysis  is around that time study using that proprietary software I mentioned. So for one week, staff logs and schedules around how much time they're spending with students, what subjects they're working on with students, in what setting they're working with students, how big the group sizes they're working with. And then our technology takes all of that data, and it takes out back to us a bunch of, insights and perspectives on how that time is being used.
NEXT> Maggie Gallagher: And so typically we do this with folks who schedule changes regularly. So special education teachers, interventionists, related providers, those folks who are kind of all over the place at

[16602-208] Maggie Gallagher | Consultant, District Management Group (remote presenter; first name as | 2025-06-18
PREV> Maggie Gallagher: this kind of data really allows districts to set clear guidelines around how staff should give their time, help them streamline tasks where they are, potentially take things off their plate that don't need to be on their plate, but they can work with students.
TEXT> Again, we do this with a lot of roles, not just special education computers, but this is one example of how we use this data. And then obviously, we take all of our information to come up with a chance for you all. But we do with that. Group and have them actually engage in session on what's going to be the highest pursuant, what's going to be the committee for student and for staff. And then you really focus in our action planning on those high impact, high feasibility priorities. We do that through an implementation. We call it a retreat, a workshop, whatever you want to use. We do that through an implementation retreat. At the end of the project, will can really dig in and ask critical questions of one another about what it's going to mean to actually bring these opportunities to life within the district, given the district context. So just. To ramp up sort of all of that deliverables wise, what you all could expect to get from us, the first thing is, just as a size report highlighting the district strengths, areas of improvement, to make sure that students in the digital learning needs and disabilities are getting what they deserve from the school. Prioritize a list of opportunities for implementation, and then that guiding coalition will really help to build the momentum and start action plan those opportunities to really make a public impact on students and staff.
NEXT> Maggie Gallagher: So that is the sort of the the wrath of what you would all of us. But, there's a couple of testimonials here. I won't read these. You all will

[16602-299] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: that, like the tips and tricks that you learn are what in particular senior teachers really glad to or gravitate to is like, how can I tweak it just a little bit better to grab that one kid? Or how can I maximize this curriculum?
TEXT> Yeah, so letters is probably the first example that comes to mind. It's the third year of teachers taking this. We've been limited to about a dozen spots per year.  But because of expense. But we're seeing  our k one and two reading scores where we're now in the 80 to 90 eighth percentile, not percentile. 8,090% of our students are in grade level reading, which didn't exist two years ago.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So you would say on some part that, yes, the significant increases is because the consistent application of the letters program.

[16602-343] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you, Miss Lewis.
TEXT> So again, you know, the big thing is, is targeting the four year olds, making sure they're  more ready to enter kindergarten in the following year. We will still have drop in service. So the pilot program will be from 9 to 1130 in the morning.  And then drop in service will take place in the afternoons. And that's targeted, for the most part, three year olds. They'll work on related services as required by the IEP. They'll work on specifically designed and structure by a special education teacher who will work on early childhood, academic and school readiness skills.  And then, you know, there may be those kids who are attending headstart, Granite State. No, not Granite State. Green mountain. Sorry. Had a different thought in my head. The all for one space where we've got to go and we've got to meet them where they're at. And. Just make sure. And then on that very again, very rare, very rare case. And we don't have it right now. But if I didn't put this in there, I guarantee you next year we'd start the year with a child at home or  in a hospital that we would have to meet their needs. Mrs. Hawkins had sent me some questions, and I'm going to answer them now, if that's okay.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: And then I'll open it up. But the first is is she asked, are we providing transportation? And I think Mary is still on with us, but yes, is prescribed

[16602-361] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-06-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Crawford.
TEXT> The 12 students. The selection for those students, are they on the worst case, the most needy or the first 12 to sign up? Or the highest?
NEXT> Mike McCosker: The highest level of need in terms of related services?

[16602-398] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (sentence onset clipped into adjacent cluster) | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: insulting. After you've given me a task to do and you've given me nothing to do it with. I find it very insulting and very degrading and very demeaning. And I'm just going to shut up now because I'm going to get myself in trouble.
TEXT> So let me. Follow up. So we  so we  know  that a lot of our case managers are giving out in teams or giving out services that kids don't really need to access the curriculum. We know that  now  how many of these kids that we have in pre-K, because you're talking about 58 kids with IEPs in pre-K.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: There are 58 in I.

[16602-406] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: We will disagree to no end on that. On your point there.
TEXT> So,  again, again, I have strong objections to starting a program when we really nobody's explained to us as a board yet, even after tonight. What is what is the. Peer reviewed scientific approach going to be to remediate these kids? We have not heard that.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Well, I'll come back to you.

[16602-428] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Committee Chair | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: To be determined? Part of it. Were parents brought kids to to the current one part of it? Some of them were busted. Okay.
TEXT> So  and my other question has to do with the way pre-K had been established. One of my issues with that was there are developmental outcomes from the state as to what students should be able to do developmentally. Right. And then our program was not aligned with those from what I could see and from what I was told at the time. So I'm hoping and I'm wondering if the program will be aligned with those developmental outcomes, and then the assessment will be based on those developmental.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: The curriculum is going to absolutely connect to the New Hampshire early learning standards. Right. That's the have to that is the curriculum and various tools to help us get

[16602-435] Melissa Lewis | Disnard School Principal | 2025-06-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: How are you going to do this physically and mentally. How are you going to do this this. I mean. I. Mean you're the person to.
TEXT> Do it. This is this for me is fun. This is in my brain, right? Anything that benefits kids, that's the right thing to do. No matter what, it takes on toll for adults. So I but I don't want you feeling at all that this was it.  That was not my sense at all. It was truly. And we've got a group of kids that really have a lot of services needed. And what makes the most sense?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, if anybody can do it, you can. Thank you. That I know.

[16602-652] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Committee Chair (voice reassigned - late-m | 2025-06-18
PREV> Loren Howard: Yeah. Going back to committee, they did a bunch of updates on June 10th.
TEXT> After everybody had gotten their packets. Yeah. And I and I will I we also have to compliment the on behalf of the policy committee, the administrative team, because everyone provides the input and revision that we ask for. And I think it will also give consistency for the building administrators.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Finance subcommittee was a shabby either.

[16764-75] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2025-08-14
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: now you have receipts that aren't matched on covering expenses. And it further elaborated that this was because of natural disasters hurricanes, volcanoes, fires, pandemics. You get the gist. None of that applies here. From what we've been told, this is because of negligence, mismanagement.
TEXT> And we've been told there's nothing nefarious. But in three months we go from $1 million to X, and I don't even know what X is. So I hope we're contemplating looking at this from a forensic point of view, too, because I can't understand how we go from one to X. So that's the first thing I want to get off my chest. And at that time,  I said I would not support going back to the taxpayers. No way. Lauren can tell you about his father and the squeeze that he's in and his taxes.  I know there's senior citizens that can't afford a increase. I know one woman that I became acquainted with last winter. She had a fire. She was homeless. You know what senior citizens do after their mortgage is paid? They look for ways to save money and not have expenses, and they get rid of their insurance. They stop making their insurance payments. And this is what that woman was up against. So  I've been told that I'm heartless. I'm not thinking about the kids. I don't know about education. I know right from wrong, and I know about business. So. I've been asking. Also, I've been asking whether or not the IRS payments have been made and I can't get an answer.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Can you? They have payments are being made.

[16764-153] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-08-14
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: Yes.
TEXT> To get the education that I felt that she deserved.  And so you're 100% right, Bill. And you and I have talked about this before.  Is that our goal from being on this board was to elevate this district. So that wouldn't happen. So I can't as a parent and somebody who cares about students not agree with you 100% that we are going to do everything we can to keep the doors open. The administration is looking for ways to make that happen. They are going to bring it forward to the board for our advice.  But you're 100% right.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: I think everybody knows that. When I came in here, I had visions of working with Chris and let him take credit for making us number one in the state,

[16764-194] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2025-08-14
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's there. Any additional comments from the board, Miss Hawkins.
TEXT> If we go back to the taxpayers, if that process does end up happening, we don't have an answer to that. We will need to know how much we would be going back for  and what it will cost us,  and that we will not keep going back. I also remind myself that we have a moral obligation to our students and our families to open those doors, to heat those buildings, to keep the lights on and keep teachers in the classrooms. That's our obligation.  And I don't know how it's going to be. Candy, I totally agree with you. But we have to do that. And I don't know what it's going to take, but we have to be there for our children and their families. And I'm I'm so upset by this as everyone else is. And I give kudos to this board because we can disagree. We can have heated discussions, but we are remembering why we're here, and we need to be here for that and keep our kids in school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is there any more comments or questions from the board? Given the extent given the topic tonight, I'd like to, open public comments or if anybody has questions, if they

[16764-224] Gary Merchant | Public commenter (Ward 2, Claremont) | 2025-08-14
PREV> Mary Henry: Oh okay. I'm sorry. I thought you were talking about I apologize, Gary, I misunderstood.
TEXT> You because right now my concern is this, Miss Henry, if we open the school and we run into a cash flow crisis beyond what we have today, and it's the end of September, it's going to be truly, truly unfair to the students to close the school down. I would advocate for you folks to consider delaying the opening of the school until this thing is solved. No one's going to like it. It's not going to be well received, but it's better to postpone the issue for a few weeks and then have the school year go into June if we have to. But to open the school with this uncertainty and that risk being so high? I think it's truly unfair  to the parents, to the students and to everyone else. I'm not saying it's the solution, but until we come up with a viable solution, I think it's something for the board to consider. And I think the cash flow, a detailed cash flow statement, understand what's coming in and what's going out. Who is getting paid, who's getting delayed is critically important. That's what you folks are facing is cash and trying to figure out what you have, where it's coming from, when it's coming in, and at that point in time when it's going out.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: But that's my recommendation. But first and foremost, as you work on that solution, put the knives away. Sit down. Collaborate. You can take the knives out afterwards, but let's

[16764-226] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-08-14
PREV> Gary Merchant: and foremost, as you work on that solution, put the knives away. Sit down. Collaborate. You can take the knives out afterwards, but let's get people working together to find that solution. And then you can take the knives out. That's my piece. Thank you.
TEXT> I just one reaction and I don't know how valid it is. One of the concerns, if we put off the opening of school, so much of the expenses that a school district has  are already. Cooked in, already cooked in. I mean, obviously payroll is the biggest and those are contractual. And and we have a it is it's contractual. So delaying it to weeks doesn't really anything except the kids aren't in class. So  so while I hear what you're saying and, and understand why you're saying it because of the way the budget is,  the way our district is funded. That's.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, it wouldn't. It. Wouldn't save. Us anything. It wouldn't stop. It wouldn't stop anything. Yeah.

[16776-12] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-08-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: then determine appropriate remedies to address steps taken to close out prior obligations and address any identified deficits. Renewing its current year's budget and identifying strategies to to adequately support students and community needs for the full 2526 school year. Completing all required financial audits.
TEXT> Establishing and implementing budget controls to safeguard funeral financial stability, and providing New Hampshire education and  and a regular updates as progress is made. The New Hampshire Education Department is committed to supporting the Claremont School District as it works through these challenges. We recognize the concerns the situation has caused has caused for families, students and staff and want and want to assure the community that the department will remain an active partner throughout this process. Regular updates will promote transparency and build confidence, and allow both the department and the community to monitor progress and hold district accountability the district accountable for meeting its commitments. By working together, we can ensure that Claremont students continue to receive the education they deserve in a safe and stable learning environment. Sincerely, Caitlin Davis, Commissioner of Education. We, the Claremont School Board, approved  any reading a statement on behalf of us. Evening everyone, and thank you for being here tonight. Every citizen of Claremont deserves to understand  how we arrived at this moment. Further audits under the oversight of Plasma and Sanders and our new comp controller, Mr. Angel, are already underway. These efforts will help us gain a clearer picture of the causes and conditions that brought us here  in the first place.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Much like the abrupt and disruptive nature of the pandemic, this crisis has taken shape suddenly and with wide reaching impact. But unlike the pandemic, we are weathering the storm

[16776-45] Nicole | Public commenter; rising senior, Stevens High School (first name only, | 2025-08-20
PREV> Nicole: to go to Black's. My other options would be to get a GED or go to another school a like blacks. I'm afraid of GED would not fit my needs. So the next best thing for me would be going to a neighboring high school.
TEXT> However, this is still also detrimental to my personal future. I lose I would get an entire new rink with new students. I would lose previous officer positions in clubs such as National Honor Society, and I enter a school with entirely new people, which is a challenge amongst itself. Truly, I don't want to leave behind Stevens as it has treated me so well in my previous years. Teachers here have changed my life trajectory and name two that come to mind Rick Johnson and Taylor Trudeau and all those students staying open this year is what is best for me. What I'm truly asking in this speech is to know as soon as possible if there will be a clothing in September, so I can make the best decision for my future. Thank you.
NEXT> Zach Greenwood: Hi, my name is Zach Greenwood. I am a voter of Ward two with 28th Street. I come here with many concerns. Sorry. I've come here with many concerns about

[16776-46] Zach Greenwood | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-08-20
PREV> Nicole: students staying open this year is what is best for me. What I'm truly asking in this speech is to know as soon as possible if there will be a clothing in September, so I can make the best decision for my future. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi, my name is Zach Greenwood. I am a voter of Ward two with 28th Street. I come here with many concerns. Sorry. I've come here with many concerns about where this school is headed in general. We're 20 points behind the New Hampshire average, and math and reading  it  is one of our all time lows. And yet our budget keeps going up and up and up. I mean, our odor is just approved. Almost like, what, $3 million to this coming years budget. And now we find out that we're millions of dollars in deficit and don't even know. If the school can stay open. So I just feel like there's a lot of negligence, possibly a dereliction of duty by members. And, you know, even if it was administrative issues, I don't understand how it all works. But you we all vote for you guys to oversee all of these things. We shouldn't be in this problem. And I'm afraid that now we're going to have to bail it out because our taxes are just through the roof in this town and my mortgage every year, my just keeps going up and up because my tax bill, you know, I'm thinking about selling my house and getting out of here because my kids education is crap and the school management seems to be crap. And I just and I  guess I don't really have any questions. That's just how I do.
NEXT> John Robinson: Hi, my name is John Robinson. I think I'm. In. Ward two. It's a 247. Chestnut Street. I am a vendor, Claremont for five years. I don't think kids in

[16776-52] Jerry Cross | Public commenter, Ward 2; retired credit-union CEO (self-described; pe | 2025-08-20
PREV> Jerry Cross: there's accountability where they're audits. Going back to 22, are those audits signed off on if, in fact they are, then then these audit groups have a fiduciary responsibility because they're guaranteeing the books are good. And some of you have passed through the House.
TEXT> Yes. Because again, and I apologize. I'm not one to be a fear monger or anything like that, but when we've got families in our community that have to make the choice of, we may need to move because our kids won't get an accredited graduation certificate, you're going to lose your community, okay? It isn't just. The school board side of the. Budget that is in peril. It's the town side as well. And we are now at a point, unfortunately, where there are going to have to be very, very hard decisions made. We're talking triage, accounting, management to be able to figure out what can we afford, can we afford retirement plans, can we afford the size of the departments we have? And  again, if I had an extra 15 minutes, I could come up with a litany of questions that I would love to have answered. Again, I  love Claremont, have been here 48 years, but there is something seriously wrong here.
NEXT> Karen Denholm: My name is Karen Denholm. My son is Michael Sheehan, who just spoke to you about his senior year. I have concerns, we have been looking at colleges. Be too

[16776-54] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter, Ward 2; urges cutting administration 'from the top'  | 2025-08-20
PREV> Karen Denholm: canal ruling, and that two determined that there was not appropriate funding for education in the state of New Hampshire. I would like the legislature to speak to this. I would like them to start taking accountability, and I would like to see that now.
TEXT> Lord, to  I just have a comment. So if we are talking about cuts to help climb out of the deficit that the past and present administration has stuck us with, I hope serious consideration will be made to cut from the top first, it's clear that past and present administration within the Saw are or were either unable or unwilling or incapable of conducting the Saw business in a way that should have kept us from this ridiculous problem in the first place. The say you can be run without a stacked administration network. We owe it to our children to keep as many of the teachers, paras and other support staff during this time of a certain. Doesn't need to continue supporting the highest paid people to do a subpar job. The district should support our children by supporting the teachers and parents who work with them day in and day out, to help move them into successful adolescents and adults. The success of our children should be the top priority, not protecting the professionally inept. Cut the fat from the top.
NEXT> Matt Bean: Matt Beam For seven years I worked for the Claremont School District. I buried my soul for the Claremont School District. I worked with any kid they asked me to,

[16776-62] Emily | Public commenter, Ward 2; parent and district employee (first name onl | 2025-08-20
PREV> Tom Wozniak: the point of all of this? You're going to keep the schools open for a month or two. We have no idea where money is going to come from. Unless some philanthropist falls in her lap. None of this is going to happen. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi, my name is Emily.  I live in Ward two. I think  I'm a parent of two elementary school kids going into first and second grade, so this is very concerning for me as a parent. But I also am  here in the district. And I think one of the biggest concerns for our student athletes all sitting behind you, our whether or not we're going to continue to have athletics here at Stevens High School. So obviously the question has arise whether school is going to start or not. But not only does it affect education, but also our athletic teams as well.  All three of our  varsity or two sorry soccer teams have their first home games next Friday, as well as field hockey and football all start in a week for  competitive games.  These student athletes work their butts off all summer and fall. To compete. We have teams that have made championship games in the past years.  And I just think that this is really a concern for them as well. Athletics is really an out for a lot of our student athletes, and I think that deserves an answer as well.   That usually is the first thing that's discussed that we need to cut or funding. And I know that this deficit is way more than just athletics, but they deserve that answer as well.
NEXT> Hannah Gasset: Good evening. My name is Hannah Gasset. I actually live in Cornish, but I chose to have my oldest son come to Claremont for school. Even though we do have

[16776-63] Hannah Gasset | Public commenter; Cornish resident with a student in Claremont schools | 2025-08-20
PREV> Emily: student athletes, and I think that deserves an answer as well. That usually is the first thing that's discussed that we need to cut or funding. And I know that this deficit is way more than just athletics, but they deserve that answer as well.
TEXT> Good evening. My name is Hannah Gasset. I actually live in Cornish, but I chose to have my oldest son come to Claremont for school. Even though we do have choices. I wanted him to be close. I wanted him to have the opportunity with the tech center and all of those, the things that Claremont has to offer. I hope that the tech center stays open. If the school just excuse me, the school district stays open. But one of my other concerns is if the school doesn't stay open, all of these kids have to have somewhere to go. These can't be absorbed by our small other schools. It's going to be extremely hard. And if they do have to go to these other schools, who absorbs that cost? Who takes the responsibility of that cost? Is it the other schools? Because if Claremont can't keep their doors open, then who's responsible for the education of these kids? My other question in kind of comment is what's keeping teachers here at this point? Our kids deserve a good education. It's not their fault. And what is going to be features here. And what is going to recruit other good teachers? Thank you.
NEXT> Paul Luther: My name. Is Paul Luther. I currently have Ward. One previously in. Ward three. I don't yeah, I. Was going through everything. The last time I was in this room

[16776-64] Paul Luther | Public commenter, Ward 1 (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-08-20
PREV> Hannah Gasset: kids? My other question in kind of comment is what's keeping teachers here at this point? Our kids deserve a good education. It's not their fault. And what is going to be features here. And what is going to recruit other good teachers? Thank you.
TEXT> My name. Is Paul Luther. I  currently have Ward. One previously in. Ward three. I don't yeah, I. Was going through everything. The last time I was in this room several years back and stood here and watch while I was one of the 47 no votes when a modification to the Warren article was put forward in this room, and they threw an expert million dollars on the fire and burned it. And y'all weren't here. Y'all weren't here. And at the end of that meeting, when I walked out that door over there, see if people, all of Claremont's elites were on this floor celebrating, and I saw it. So this problem is not just the school problem. It goes to the leaders of the community who thought that was a smart thing to do. And today, it looks not so smart. And I'd like to see ultimately something like that has to be addressed. I'm optimistic. It's true. Hard times make for strong. If these kids get through this, nothing will stop them. And hard times are coming for us. So,  are you ready? And do well, if you can. You know, don't emulate your peers here today. Rise above this mess and do a better job with your own money. Not  fan of emotional. I'm not the spirit God.
NEXT> Paul Luther: I don't do that. I'm not. I'm not a wrong god. I like money. I like what it does. I like using it responsibly. I admire you to do that.

[16776-69] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1; former School Board member (as announced; co | 2025-08-20
PREV> Jason Benware: she wants to go to a very challenging school and getting accepted. Early decision has a lot to do with whether or not you're going to school during that time, because you need letters from your guidance counselor and you need letters from your teachers.
TEXT> And,  early decision gives you a better chance of getting in. But I want to jump on something that  Emily said,  thinking about the sports part of things.  So my daughter, along with most of those kids out there working credibly hard, and if you decide that the tough decisions include stopping the sports, I'd like to think just a little bit outside the box about things, because I don't think you have to stop sports in order to cut money. During Covid, we transport our kids with a waiver anyway. We can still do that. I know there's plenty of parents out here who sports are important enough. To them. And you could make this happen. Oh. Yeah, I'll get there also. There's other things. Raffin costs. A little bit of money. Fall sports in general, with the exception of football, are relatively cheap. Okay. They throw a couple field hockey balls out, and that's essentially what we get for field hockey. Soccer is pretty much the same. So  even if you wanted to go to pay to play, I understand that that there's people out there that may not be able to afford it.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I know for a fact the field hockey team has money in an account and it's a couple thousand dollars. They could probably subsidize some of those kids who can't

[16776-70] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1; former School Board member (as announced; co | 2025-08-20
PREV> Jason Benware: hockey balls out, and that's essentially what we get for field hockey. Soccer is pretty much the same. So even if you wanted to go to pay to play, I understand that that there's people out there that may not be able to afford it.
TEXT> I know for a fact the field hockey team has money in an account and it's a couple thousand dollars. They could probably subsidize some of those kids who can't afford it. And I think that's probably the case with most of the sports, because I know they're all fundraising. I believe that it can still work. My only concern would be, can we still play even if they're not going to school? We obviously have preseason and they're not going to school. So I feel like we could still continue doing that regardless of whether or not we're in school for that month. I'd like to  to consider that, and I appreciate your time. Thank you.
NEXT> Carolyn Redman: Carolyn Redman. From Ward three. And I left my house like 15 minutes ago because I was watching online. There were a couple of things I felt like it was

[16776-71] Carolyn Redman | Public commenter, Ward 3 (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-08-20
PREV> Jason Benware: school? We obviously have preseason and they're not going to school. So I feel like we could still continue doing that regardless of whether or not we're in school for that month. I'd like to to consider that, and I appreciate your time. Thank you.
TEXT> Carolyn Redman. From Ward three. And I left my house like 15 minutes ago because I was watching online.  There were a couple of things I felt like it was necessary to say. One is that I've had children. My oldest is 35, so I had four children. Three graduated from Stevens. My youngest one graduated last year from blacks. And I came for two reasons. One, to say that every year we get asked for more tax dollars, and we're getting less from the school. That is one of the things that led my youngest to pursue Vlad's. She felt she wasn't being challenged in the Claremont School District. As a middle schooler, she pursued blacks. She graduated from Vlad's. And for the seniors out there that are questioning their future. I wanted to mention that she was accepted to every college she applied to.  She did not apply to the Ivies because they did not have the program she was looking for, but she was accepted to every college she applied to, which was about 14 colleges. So I wanted to just let you know there is another option for those students who are struggling to decide what they want to do with their future, and if they trust the Claremont School District to provide for them what they need. And that's pretty much what I came to say.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: Something and I'm in Ward two. I just wanted to share some of my concerns. Not only my parent of multiple children in the district, two of which have ivy

[16776-72] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter, Ward 2; district special-education staff member and  | 2025-08-20
PREV> Carolyn Redman: know there is another option for those students who are struggling to decide what they want to do with their future, and if they trust the Claremont School District to provide for them what they need. And that's pretty much what I came to say.
TEXT> Something  and I'm in Ward two.  I just wanted to share some of my concerns.  Not only my parent of multiple children in the district, two of which have ivy that need services provided, one would not work well during blacks.  But I'm also I work for the district, so  I'm a little concerned about whether or not. I'll have a job. And how  the kids that I work with are going to be serviced because I work in a self-contained classroom with kids that probably wouldn't do the best online either.  Obviously that's not something that you guys can control, but it's something that a lot of people have concerns about.  I just know that a lot of kids that we work with have really extensive IPS, kids that I know personally there just will never work for them. So I'm just I just wanted to share that.
NEXT> JP Johnson: Hi, my name is JP Johnson. I'm short. I'm in Ward two. I grew up in this town. Graduated from Stevens. I've lived here most of my life. A lot

[16776-76] Kelly | Public commenter; Claremont teacher and parent (first name only, as an | 2025-08-20
PREV> Kelly: Claremont schools for four years. I've been a teacher for 17 years, and six of those years had been in New Hampshire, and I have never been worried about getting paid or keeping my benefits for my family until I came here to Claremont. Ever.
TEXT> Concerns is that teachers with seniority are being replaced with new teachers, with the lower salaries and less experience, and this is a detriment to our students. And I want to know if this is purposeful, because there are several schools, especially Maple, who has had a very high  teacher turnover, and that is not fair to our students. I was a new teacher once I did it, but when you have highly experienced, highly educated teachers being replaced by first year teachers, it doesn't make sense anymore. Is this because of the salaries and how can we expect our best teachers and our most experienced teachers to stay? I know personally around the rumor mill in the schools right around April, everyone starting to think about,  do I need to go somewhere else? Do I need to go somewhere else? And this year it was explosive in the hallways of the schools because we didn't know what was going to happen. And all of this started to come out. So I received my final class lists on Monday. I been in my class setting up. I've been building furniture, I've been putting my textbooks, I've been counting, and it's Wednesday and I have already had two students. Drop.
NEXT> Kelly: Off my list to go to homeschool because of the situation, and on one teacher. So multiply that out and that is how it's affecting our students not knowing. Are

[16776-77] Kelly | Public commenter; Claremont teacher and parent (first name only, as an | 2025-08-20
PREV> Kelly: of this started to come out. So I received my final class lists on Monday. I been in my class setting up. I've been building furniture, I've been putting my textbooks, I've been counting, and it's Wednesday and I have already had two students. Drop.
TEXT> Off my list to go to homeschool because of the situation, and on one teacher. So multiply that out and that is how it's affecting our students not knowing. Are they coming to school? Are they going to get to stay in school? We need to know now  that was the point of this meeting. What was the plan?
NEXT> Unidentified: Where's the plan? I'm not sure.

[16776-90] Michael Generico | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-08-20
PREV> Derek Lick: one, but I do want to let as many people speak and present as possible. But I also want to be cognizant of the time. We're about an hour in. Let's let these three folks go and then we'll see where we are. Come on.
TEXT> Hi, my name is Michael Generico.  I  am in. Ward two.  So. I think from what I've heard and correct me if I'm wrong, but I think families want to know, are you and. Staff. Are you cutting any staff, sports or any extracurricular programs? Where is the plan? That was, we were told that the last meeting would be shared with us tonight. My wife and I live here and we're proud to live here. And my and we planned on raising a family here.  She works in the district and had hoped to retire here. But, you know, and leaving things better than she had found them. Right now, we're not sure that can happen. Can you assure parents, students and staff that they will have a full academic year? The reality is that people who are suffering, who will suffer most from these decisions are the taxpayers, staff, families, and ultimately the kids sitting behind you and here. And if you can't protect our schools as a district, then you're failing and have failed the very families who trusted you in the administration of their future. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: We're getting the answers to any questions.

[16776-94] Karen Duport | Public commenter, Ward 1; Claremont Middle School teacher (as announce | 2025-08-20
PREV> Unidentified: Good job.
TEXT> And  we have three young grandchildren who will  eventually be entering school, one this year in kindergarten and one shortly behind that, and another one in a couple of years. I don't want them to have to move. We're a tight family, and I'm so worried, not just from my own employment, my own medical benefits and such,  and for my own family. But I'm really worried and concerned for all of the students in Claremont and for all their families. I just had to talk to my. Thank you.
NEXT> Miles Sheehan: Hi. I know I came up earlier, but I got some. I'm Miles again, in case you forgot. I got some questions from some friends who are, at home that

[16776-95] Miles Sheehan | Public commenter; rising senior (second comment; onset clipped into ne | 2025-08-20
PREV> Karen Duport: worried, not just from my own employment, my own medical benefits and such, and for my own family. But I'm really worried and concerned for all of the students in Claremont and for all their families. I just had to talk to my. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi. I know I came up earlier, but I got some. I'm Miles again, in case you forgot.  I got some questions from some friends who are, at home that can't speak. I want to bring to the board and the community's attention that programs like the  sports program and music program are the heart and soul of a lot of the kids that are here tonight. Those of us going to college hoping to study and play football, soccer, field hockey, other sports, or hoping to study music or performance arts. We have a right to do so, and we have a right to learn how to play the game and to learn how to play the notes. The rising seniors this year who are not only going out into a harsh world, but we're going out into it with the skills that knowledge, the skills and knowledge that we acquired here. We were about to be inducted into the largest among the alumni association in the country, and now it's possibly being stripped from us. My friends want to know the following. Why weren't the audits on yearly? Why wasn't the board given sufficient information every year to give to the auditors to perform them? I don't know, that's it. This is my talent, and I want to be able to drive through here when I grow up and say that this is where I went to school and to see it still.
NEXT> Miles Sheehan: When you look at who feels the strongest about this town, it's the students. Fall sports, bringing the community together at all the games. The team selling their discount cards

[16776-96] Miles Sheehan | Public commenter; rising senior, 2024-25 student board representative  | 2025-08-20
PREV> Miles Sheehan: give to the auditors to perform them? I don't know, that's it. This is my talent, and I want to be able to drive through here when I grow up and say that this is where I went to school and to see it still.
TEXT> When you look at who feels the strongest about this town, it's the students. Fall sports, bringing the community together at all the games. The team selling their discount cards to support local businesses. Fan goes around and plays service songs to veterans and nursing homes every year. We care about this town so deeply, and we deserve answers swiftly so that we, the kids, can continue to change minds about how amazing this place is and how amazing the people are.
NEXT> Derek Lick: So I just want to interrupt for one minute, but I'd like to do is ask the board, with your permission, to allow the last two that are standing to

[16776-97] Derek Lick | Public-comment facilitator (volunteer; moderator of a neighboring scho | 2025-08-20
PREV> Miles Sheehan: and plays service songs to veterans and nursing homes every year. We care about this town so deeply, and we deserve answers swiftly so that we, the kids, can continue to change minds about how amazing this place is and how amazing the people are.
TEXT> So I just want to interrupt for one minute, but I'd like to do is ask the board, with your permission, to allow  the last two that are standing to speak before we close the public session.  And then we'll wrap it up. What, you guys speak to the state? Want to? I'll take this moment just to say a couple things as an outsider looking in. First of all, if that young gentleman is a good example of your students, you're doing an amazing job very well. How can. This be to somebody with the neighboring community that we feel for you folks, we know you're going to get through it. You guys are. And from everything I've heard tonight, a great community supporting the kids. I know you're going to get through it.  With that, let's turn it over. The last two speakers that after that will allow the board attorney, whoever wishes to speak. Thank you for coming out tonight and sharing your comments. Come on.
NEXT> Braden Gasset: My name is Braden Gasset, and. It's just a couple of little things. One thing that. Bothered me earlier, it was brought up that you didn't see a lot of

[16776-116] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-08-20
PREV> Unidentified: And why is say you not. Here to answer questions? What was that that that first.
TEXT> Public comments. What I would you would like to address on behalf of the board. And that gentleman up there was absolutely correct.  Is this anything that comes out of my mouth right now is going to sound like hot garbage. It's going to sound deceptive. It's going to sound untruthful. It's going to sound misleading. When people say, I don't know, it's usually because they don't want to answer the question. We don't know. We thought about an hour before this meeting that we were going to have a presentation. We thought we were going to have accurate and sustainable numbers or or some modicum of a sustainable number or a target or a direction, and  literally up to an hour  for this meeting. We don't know. And so that's what I have to sit here and tell you. Honestly, we don't know. And that's how it is.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's unacceptable to this guy. It is.

[16776-155] Karen Liot Hill | Executive Councilor, NH Executive Council District 2 (ASR renders 'Kar | 2025-08-20
PREV> Karen Liot Hill: to help in any way that I can as a liaison. I will also make sure that I share my summary of tonight's meeting with the governor's office, and to encourage her to also be involved in this matter and to assign someone to this.
TEXT> And if it turns out that legislation is needed, as the attorney has mentioned, or if a special session of the legislature is required, that would need to be called for by the governor and then voted on by the Executive Council.  I will encourage my colleagues on the Executive Council to vote to support a special session of the legislature, if that is required, to help Claremont  be able to provide an education to the students here this year. I am sorry for the situation you are in, and I am here to offer my support in any way that I can. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: State legislator or. State representative. I also live in Claremont Ward one and City Councilor at large, so I had a speech. I'll be there. But everyone here has relayed

[16776-156] Unidentified | NH State Representative and Claremont City Councilor at large (self-de | 2025-08-20
PREV> Karen Liot Hill: legislature, if that is required, to help Claremont be able to provide an education to the students here this year. I am sorry for the situation you are in, and I am here to offer my support in any way that I can. Thank you.
TEXT> State legislator or. State representative. I also live in Claremont Ward one and City Councilor at large, so I had a speech. I'll be there. But everyone here has relayed those messages, those questions, and the desire of how  Claremont should move forward. I echo a lot of everything that you say, and I know that the state has to get better, but we need good, responsible laws and and Rs. A's to make sure that the funding is appropriate and fair for everyone. Going forward, I hope that we can keep the school open for this year for the sake of our seniors, to make sure that we can go to the colleges at the desire and be able to have the sports teams. I know my daughter isn't going to play soccer this year as it goes right now. We there is no coach for the middle school.  I asked, and that was right before I found out the funding issue was such an issue. So I guess you'll do something else at that time frame. I do appreciate everyone showing up and I would encourage you. I know we have jobs. I know we have things to do, but occasionally get on the TV.
NEXT> Unidentified: Check out what's happening in either the city council and or on the school boards. This is the only way that you're going to know what's happening. There is a

[16776-162] Unidentified | Audience member (asks to move the next meeting earlier) | 2025-08-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: As of today, schools are going to be open on the 28th.
TEXT> That but I guess and I'm not saying I'm just asking, is there a way to move the meeting up so that parents can make it better informed decision for their kids out in the potentially the schools that say, okay, move them back through the year? And I would ask that, can you also offer.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If we have information that drives a decision to change the opening date that will be communicated, we're told there should be an emergency meeting because information has arisen that.

[16776-199] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter (final speaker; onset clipped — uncertain) | 2025-08-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: One last question. And then we have to.
TEXT> I mean. This is a beautiful community with beautiful kids and beautiful families, and they have an enormous amount of energy and passion for everything that they're a part of here at Stevens. That's what I've come to learn here. Being here in your community for three years, I'm wondering if there are certain minimum cuts that you're looking at. I understand that there's a window, that there's a lot of uncertainty, but are there are certain cuts that you're just looking at that you can let people know right now and say, look, you're not going to have a soccer team because I know these kids and families will get out there and they can keep the drums and make the steps that are necessary still fundraise. They go crazy for the things that they care about. And I'm wondering if you give these kids and these families and these teachers an opportunity to support programs that otherwise, the longer we wait to announce certain things, the more abrupt it is and the harder it is to recover them and save them. If there's certain things that you know are coming down the plate right now, give them a chance to save the program. Going to say thank you very much.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: As, as as as I. As has previously been stated in other meetings, we have a hiring freeze and a spending freeze in place. That's our biggest cost saving right

[16786-10] Patrick O'Hearn | Human Resources Director, SAU 6 | 2025-08-25
PREV> Mike McCosker: that was purchased for me. That's the building, not the program. Eventually, that will be where the program is housed on the lab. I don't have any of those numbers on what they were for that building, but 265, 250,000 for that building. Thank you.
TEXT> So  the first thing I want to say before we go into the exploration of what the potential risks look like, as I am sorry, I, I  started work here a little over a year and a half ago, and that Claremont community is welcoming.  I enjoyed every moment working with staff. I'm learning more about your community, and this is a really, really difficult problem. And what I want to emphasize is over the last several weeks, district administration saw. So principal sitting over there.  Assistant principals, we have been entertaining whatever we need to do to ensure the words stay open.  And as we entertained, what potential risks would look like, we use the criteria  the following one. We needed to fulfill all contractual obligations of the district two. We wanted to minimize negative impacts on student education and safety. And three, we wanted to maintain as many pathways forward as possible for the highest level of student learning and extracurricular opportunities,  possible during this difficult time. So a broad overview of what  positions are being considered are  a group of maintenance positions, including custodians at bluff. Seems, designer  Maple and Stevens High,  as well as the Tech center secretaries.
NEXT> Patrick O'Hearn: This includes school year secretaries of business Maple and Stevens. And this includes year round Secretary at CMS and a medicaid specialist also being considered for some positions, such as

[16786-12] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-08-25
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: positions, and to ensure we keep the district's financial recovery on track. I want to emphasize that the board and the ministration we are committed to transparency, open communication and finding every pathway forward to protect opportunities for students while still meeting our financial responsibilities.
TEXT> Good evening. My name is Michael. We have been. Meeting with principals and assistant principals and administrators to try and tease out. These. Cuts to have, as said earlier, the least impact on student learning and still maintain the all the the educational opportunities that we can. Now, it would be silly to think that they weren't going to be changes, but we have managed. To  maintain all of our classroom settings and have teachers in every one of the schools. Students have classrooms that they can attend with a teacher who will be teaching them  in. Those students and teachers will be in on time in school, will run as school has run in the past. It will put a pinch and make all of those  staff who are still employed. Well, the teachers, everybody will be working more. We know that we've  accepted that and everybody has been willing to take on more work in in kind of a difficult time. We believe we still can provide the the quality education to all of our students. Staff have been willing to work over the weekend. We've been changing schedules. People have been working for free, giving up their time and evenings.  And it is all coming into place so that school can begin on time. We still have all of our  program materials.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Our curriculum is still the same. Students will have textbooks. Students will have workbooks. Students will learn in their classrooms with their teachers on a negative impact. Some class sizes

[16786-14] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2025-08-25
PREV> Mike Koski: up and doing what we can so that the students will get the best educational experience that they can. So again, just to repeat, we'll begin on time. Students will be in classrooms. Teachers will be in classrooms, and curricula and programs remain the same.
TEXT> Yes. Good evening. I've been  asked. To help or kind of oversee in any way I can, fundraising efforts that are going to be going on in the district. It's unprecedented times, and we need to reaching out to community members. To see what we can do just to keep everything going. So what we're looking for is that, you know, Mr. Beaupre has already started a group to discuss and talk about raising funds for sports. We need to focus on music, arts, extracurriculars as well. So we can give these kids the opportunities that they deserve. They answer some questions. Really looking for  is donations to come to the Paramount School District. That way goes into a fund. It's, you know, less legal issues.  It also, you help avoid double spending. So the song raise money for one purpose, but then buys something and then finds out that money is already been raised for that. So we we don't want to, you know, add to the confusion. So we're looking for any donations that are raised in equal funds to go to the district and get put into the district, keeps the legal keep clean and also keeps the distribution fair. So we'll look at,  you know, nobody keeping the the for what we need and what we need to keep going.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So yeah, we have a lot of people out there that are, you know, I've heard GoFundMe you starting. I've heard of different people trying to raise money. We want

[16786-15] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2025-08-25
PREV> Michael Petrin: equal funds to go to the district and get put into the district, keeps the legal keep clean and also keeps the distribution fair. So we'll look at, you know, nobody keeping the the for what we need and what we need to keep going.
TEXT> So yeah, we have a lot of people out there that are, you know, I've heard GoFundMe you starting. I've heard of different people trying to raise money. We want to reach out. We also don't overwhelming businesses. We don't want five people going to the Toyota all asking for. So in order to this coordinated effort, I'm going to be working. Mr. Beaupre and his group that has started to be reaching out to other music arts,  and other people looking out for eight and do what I can to help get the fundraising going and making sure that we're meeting all the needs of the kids. So, you know, we don't need anybody out. So, Any.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I just have to say that I spend a lot of time on the phone this weekend talking with folks that are energized and committed to the fundraising process and

[16786-20] Cynthia | Public commenter (first name as announced; surname not stated on mic) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Derek Ferland: The comments last night were thoughtful, they were articulate, and above all, they were civil. So if we could please continue that vibe so that you could get the information and be heard and we can all as a community move forward. So thank you.
TEXT> My name is Cynthia. My favorite concern is that my kids have played sports since they were this big. And I realized that the first thing that we had mentioned cut my daughter. And I know the boys men fundraising. They've raised a lot of money that was actually given to those kids philanthropically thinking, we're donating to keep this war going. Are you going to return all of that money to those people if you're cutting all their sports? I mean, you all these kids are devastated. That wasn't a free hand up that were people digging into their pockets to donate. And on that thing that they sent out, it's specifically said,  I am donating for 2025. In my case, the girls soccer team. And that was misleading for people. Them donating hundreds and hundreds of dollars to now say, yeah, we're just going to put it in a general fund. And yeah, she's devastated. When you cut arts and sports or just art, everything is done through Borden. My concern is I really feel ethically you need to return that money. If you're not going to find a way for those kids to finish the season, they start, and you're going to have a lot more kids on the street causing trouble.
NEXT> Cynthia: They're great. This teaches them ethics and teaches them good behavior. People always forget the arts, the sport, and realize it costs money. I know there's, but it is just

[16786-21] Cynthia | Public commenter (first name as announced; surname not stated on mic) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Cynthia: Borden. My concern is I really feel ethically you need to return that money. If you're not going to find a way for those kids to finish the season, they start, and you're going to have a lot more kids on the street causing trouble.
TEXT> They're great. This teaches them ethics and teaches them good behavior. People always forget the arts, the sport, and realize it costs money. I know there's,  but it is just as much a mean curriculum as everything else. And these kids should not be suffering because adults could not handle it is ridiculous. And they are the ones suffering and it's not fair. You're going to have so many devastated athletes and students and art students. I mean, I personally am now going to have to look at a different avenue because my kid needs those things to get into  the med school she's looking at. She needs these extracurriculars. She can't say hoops. I'm going to take my gap year early because my schools were. I just think you guys really administrators should have been where the cuts were made first, not your teacher.
NEXT> Jason: My name is Jason. Ward one. I know a lot of you guys on the board, actually, not really talking to the board as much as I'm talking to people

[16786-22] Jason | Public commenter, Ward 1 (first name as announced; surname not stated  | 2025-08-25
PREV> Cynthia: the med school she's looking at. She needs these extracurriculars. She can't say hoops. I'm going to take my gap year early because my schools were. I just think you guys really administrators should have been where the cuts were made first, not your teacher.
TEXT> My name is Jason. Ward one. I know a lot of you guys on the board, actually, not really talking to the board as much as I'm talking to people in the audience. You know, last  meeting, we had a lot of people up here, and a lot of them were up seven, eight, three. And they voiced their anger and their disappointment. I'm one of those people. I'm angry and I'm disappointed. However, we're in this situation, it's not going to change. And so  we have a choice. Anybody who reaches or sees adversity in their lives, they have a choice. We can be a victim. We can sit here, we can complain and we can argue, or we can accept that we're in this situation and we can move on with it and come up here with some ideas and try to work together and actually make it better and hopefully get some ideas so we don't get in this situation. Again, we're a very strong community and a community that cares about our children, so I'm very confident that if we work together, we put our all into fundraising, that we can make and extracurriculars work for our kids.
NEXT> Jason: We need to. Number one, no one number know it'd be great. What do we need in order for that to work out work? And then we really need a

[16786-30] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - coach/parent of student athletes; ask | 2025-08-25
PREV> Derek Ferland: Let's keep going and moving, folks. I know there are some follow up questions. Please do get in line and we'll hopefully get through everybody.
TEXT> First, I guess, you know, I agree with Mr. Mayor. He's talking to someone I'm sure you know. Mr.. So, you know, thank you to you guys.  You know, I have been,  a thorn in Heather's side over the last couple of weeks.  You know, trying to figure out what's going on and what we could do to help and all of that kind of stuff. And, you know, I just  wanted to thank you guys. You're really, really tough spot. You know, nine times out of ten, when we hold elections for school boards, you're the only people that have their names on the ballot. So I appreciate what you guys are doing. The second part of the question that I have, is we said already that sports or I have a ledger full of boys back there that  I  love like my own. I have those kids since they were smaller than me. Sports. It's cut because that mean. Now,  what does that mean for  the soccer teams? The football team?  Now we call sports their. Their first game is scheduled for Friday. The girls soccer teams are at home. The boys are on the road. Where they going? So that's my question. Sports are cut, but that's not. It's. That doesn't really mean anything. Are the soccer teams going to their game on Friday? Or no understanding.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Angel and myself met with Doug Beaupre, who was the athletic director, and he is spearheading the effort and working conjunction with Mr. Peterson and other fundraising folks to

[16786-35] James O'Shaughnessy | District Counsel, SAU 6 (Drummond Woodsum) (uncertain - merged cluster | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: It's only three days away.
TEXT> I'm going to try to make this really, really one. If people don't come forward with money, there are not going to be fall sports, winter sports or spring sports. This is diary. There's not enough money. And I'm just spreading the message because I. I'm just doing it. But there's not  there's not enough money right now  for  the district to pay for other obligations. So it's it's which check do they cut to move. And right now they're making tough decisions and it's brutal. But if people don't come forward and do some fundraising and bring cash in and soon, there's not going to be fall sports, there's not going to be winter sports. There's not going to be spring sports. How much money do you need for those kids to.
NEXT> Unidentified: Play their game on Friday? I can only give a number for the entire year. We need about a half $1 million. So did they keep practicing? Do they keep

[16786-36] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - coach/parent of student athletes; ask | 2025-08-25
PREV> James O'Shaughnessy: people don't come forward and do some fundraising and bring cash in and soon, there's not going to be fall sports, there's not going to be winter sports. There's not going to be spring sports. How much money do you need for those kids to.
TEXT> Play their game on Friday? I can only give a number for the entire year. We need about a half $1 million. So did they keep practicing? Do they keep working as just looking for some direction? I my son, is one of those kids. To me saying sports is cut and we need to raise a half $1 million before Friday means that there's no sports. And I understand we have to make the tough choices. We have to make these cuts. I get that. But they deserve to know now if they're going to have a season or not. No. Five minutes before  they are scheduled to get on a bus.
NEXT> James O'Shaughnessy: As of this moment, no one has come forward with any funding, so there's no sports.

[16786-39] Michelle Springer | Public commenter (name as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Okay. Michelle Springer or to Michelle's. I've been in in this district. I've been a parent. I've been  found raiser.  And so there's been a,  we've been told that this is going to be uncomfortable and difficult decisions will be made to fix the mismanagement, taxpayer funds to keep the schools operating for at least the next month. While I understand the decision to cut 19 positions may have been difficult to make, as seems as no thought was given to the impact of the children these educators would have been working so diligently with before the school year. The schools were short staffed between teachers paras, behavioral staff. Now the levels are joke. No one is laughing. Some classroom sizes will double. The teachers are being told the pack of their classrooms just the two phase before the start of school in to another grade. The impact to the students has the potential to be huge, overstimulated kids walking into school on the first day to a classroom that isn't set up could cause increased behaviors. Despite things the special educators and the  student service people should already be aware of this and have those protocols in place. But we have no health counselors. We have no social emotional learning instructors. We have no A's. Who's going to be helping these children? Just one teacher and one parent, a classroom that's not fair to them or the student.
NEXT> Michelle Springer: But as long as the bloated administration is comfortable, the kids apparently don't need to be. I would bring up that not a single position at the Dow building or

[16786-40] Michelle Springer | Public commenter (name as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Michelle Springer: have those protocols in place. But we have no health counselors. We have no social emotional learning instructors. We have no A's. Who's going to be helping these children? Just one teacher and one parent, a classroom that's not fair to them or the student.
TEXT> But as long as the bloated administration is comfortable, the kids apparently don't need to be. I would bring up that not a single position at the Dow building or  admin in the schools have been cut. We don't need. I worked in several schools. One principal. That's it. We don't need two superintendents. We don't need three HR people and a secretary without  two  appointments. Why is that happened? And instead, we're impacting our own children and their mental and emotional state. As long as our. And as well as our teachers and our paraprofessionals. That's not fair. It is not acceptable. And I don't care if no one is coming to save us because we have fun. We have been fundraising for the last a week and as an admin said to me last year, let me be very clear. They're not doing it for you. They're doing it for our children and our teachers.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm from unity. My tax payer, my packs. College still goes to this school. A couple things. We've heard a lot about cuts. We've heard dollar amounts. I think I've

[16786-51] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - Claremont educator and parent) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Chris Cogswell: don't want to have their taxes raised, or do not want to spend more money here on the schools, are there ways that the citizens could volunteer time instead? That's the other question that I really have. So just consider that as well. Thank you.
TEXT> Thanks for you.  And the first is really I want to start, but students should be at the center of everything that we do. That is who we are as educators. And the first thing I'd like to ask is that every educator from the Claremont district in this audience, please stand up so we can apply for. Take their time, their efforts, their money, and they support our kids. My son would not be where he is today without two of the high school teachers specifically, I'd really like to recognize Taylor Trudeau and Kat Gessner as myself. Some of the things that I am asking tonight are  what is this? This plan to support our students with the most difficulty in our concerns? On paper, it's one thing to say that we should cut this or that this cut will be appropriate. But until we work with teachers to figure out if those impacts affect them, we can't know  and we don't know how they're going to support our children. Our students come into the classrooms each year with more and more difficult problems.
NEXT> Unidentified: We spend time with those students every day, sometimes for up to a half an hour, sometimes hours. Students need our time, and when we look at starting to condense

[16786-52] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - Claremont educator and parent) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: will be appropriate. But until we work with teachers to figure out if those impacts affect them, we can't know and we don't know how they're going to support our children. Our students come into the classrooms each year with more and more difficult problems.
TEXT> We spend time with those students every day, sometimes for up to a half an hour, sometimes hours. Students need our time, and when we look at starting to condense our classrooms and make those classroom sizes larger, all that happens is our students end up losing. The last time I came and spoke, I listened to Nikki Bouchard, who's going to be third, who's ranked third in her class, and she said, I lose, I lose, I lose, I lose, and I want you to really consider those words our students are losing. I had one question from a friend who sent me a text, who would like to know that considerations will be made for future contracts? Will additional clauses be put in to prevent contract  cases of negligence or in and or misconduct? And I think finally we've been talking a lot about  of  about fundraising as an administrative result. I know that there are specific rules for auditing when it comes to fundraising. If we plan on doing a large fundraising movement, our citizens need to know what those protocols are. There are very specific ways for the way that we handle money. It's very important that we get that information out. And the last question that I will ask is, are these funds going into student activity accounts so that we can account that they go through the correct item, or are they going into the general fund? Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Good evening. But it is sharing a new word to I come here as I imagine others are tonight still making a decision about whether my child will be attending

[16786-54] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - parent of a Stevens High student; als | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: because of a decision that the school board makes about a financial need for closing, will my high school student get any measure of credit for the time that he puts in? Because at the high school level, we are measuring every credit toward graduation.
TEXT> So I would like someone within the school district who is responsible to be able to answer that at some point.  Going back to a couple of meetings ago, I asked about the last thing that had been said about the the numbers, then only indicating that school would be opened until the end of September. Last week, we were very clear that that information is unreliable at this point, but I have not heard anything  that would indicate to me that you are aware  that you will be able to stay open longer than a month, and that is a huge factor in my decision making and something that we really need to know. When we're talking about extracurriculars, music and arts are  in a program similar to things like our cooking programs and the other programs that are up at the school, they are uncertain.  They are credits that are given are the arts and the music  in particular being treated as classes, or are they being treated as extracurricular? Because those credits are critical to the future of my students, I would like to mention for our audience who is hearing about the Academy from someone as an official capacity for the first time tonight.
NEXT> Unidentified: If you can clarify, that $1.2 million in savings is not only coming from the ten students that you are returning, because that return on investment, while very important for

[16786-55] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - parent of a Stevens High student; als | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: as classes, or are they being treated as extracurricular? Because those credits are critical to the future of my students, I would like to mention for our audience who is hearing about the Academy from someone as an official capacity for the first time tonight.
TEXT> If you can clarify,  that $1.2 million in savings is not only coming from the ten students that you are returning, because that return on investment, while very important for those students, is an insane amount of money for one student, Miss. Whitney. Mr.. Mr.. Peter  and the entire school board, for you to think that the only people who can manage fundraising dollars are at the school district is a measure of the standard. We have professional fundraisers in here tonight. We have people who have been fundraising for these extracurriculars for their entire  life of their child. And I, for one, refused to give my dollars to the school district because that is an extra job.  You're asking to have a full time job to manage the $500,000 that you say we need, so please find a way to rely on the people who are experienced fundraisers so that we can help you to achieve what we're asking you to do. Thank you.
NEXT> Mike Koski: To address your question about credits, then conversations with the high school administration, all the plans they're making are to assign credits for semester quarter classes. And so all those

[16786-57] John McCoy | Public commenter (name as announced; not on public roster; parent of a | 2025-08-25
PREV> Mike Koski: I believe we could. We can. We don't anticipate that happening. But if it does, we will pro rate or, you know, assign those credit. There was another question about arts and music classes. Those classes are being treated as every other classes being treated.
TEXT> Hello, my name is John McCoy. I live off of the mess that is North Street right now.  I wanted to know what's going to go on with special education para educators. My daughter heavily relies on those, and as  Melissa Lewis saw all last year, my daughter benefited from those in literally through. I moved across the country and moved back to Claremont because my daughter loves it here. And so obviously I want the best education for her. But  how is she going to continue and grow and not be stunted without the special services she needs? Are we going to have title one reading? That is another like thing that costs money, but it is beneficial to the students. Guess what happens when kids are illiterate? They end up going to prison. In jail. That's not just me coming out my rear end with that. That is little statistics, and we do not want Claremont to be another statistic. And for you guys to not all of you, but  I pay my rent, I pay my bills, I pay them all long time. So if you're getting your payers money from me on time it was misappropriated.
NEXT> John McCoy: So don't I get to shame to say that it's our fault? We need to keep coming out with more money. We did not cause this problem. We need to

[16786-58] John McCoy | Public commenter (name as announced; not on public roster; parent of a | 2025-08-25
PREV> John McCoy: not want Claremont to be another statistic. And for you guys to not all of you, but I pay my rent, I pay my bills, I pay them all long time. So if you're getting your payers money from me on time it was misappropriated.
TEXT> So don't I get to shame to say that it's our fault? We need to keep coming out with more money. We did not cause this problem. We need to find out who's accountable. Because I didn't cause the problem. I came here and gave you all more tax money from moving back to the area. Someone needs to be held accountable for that. Yes. Okay. Guess what? Maybe we need to cut some firefighters that are in the area, like the New Hampshire has less than us and more people than us, and are able to run  successfully. Like, I just don't know where the money is being allocated. I need to know that my daughter's future is going to be secure. I can't ask anybody. My parents didn't deal with this issue. Nobody here has dealt with schools closing.  It is a historic event, but my dog is. Education is first and foremost. Guess what? North streets being blown to smithereens. And we just found out this for nothing to became connect the water main at the bottom. So we spent all that money on North Street for nothing, when it could have been going to the schools. So I need a plan of what parent education is going to look like. What is special education going to look like? School opens in two days, allegedly. So what does that going to look like for the kids that are  being underrepresented right now? Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Rising junior year round, I'd just like to share some of my thoughts about the situation that made me speak for others. It can't hurt them. I can show my

[16786-60] John Eaton | Public commenter (name as announced; not on public roster) (onset frag | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: family with teens and again, I know about the only person thinks this way. But to know that all these opportunities, relationships and safe places are being jeopardized and potentially taken away from us is incredibly unfair and truly devastating. And it's sorry. Thank you.
TEXT> Blue. My name is John Eaton, 42. I just have a few things I tried. So sorry. And according to Claremont, January of 26, that building was purchased for $255,000. Now, why has that not stopped? There is still every day there a contract is there working. That's 300 plus $1,000 that can be saved right there. So when you're trying to tell us is that there are no other spaces available for these kids and students to be housed in. This is the question.  There was a statement that teachers are no longer getting new books, but that's been halted. Well, I was told by a t shirt made the love  that they came in and took her books. So this is very confusing. What you trying to tell us? And it's a very large pill to swallow. And  I guess I'm very disappointed in this city. Thank you.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Sorry. Before you begin, I'll just answer the question about the books. It has been a very confusing time, and we thought at one point we needed to return the

[16786-74] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - criticizes legislators, the comptroll | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: think any of us here. Know the state representatives inside of this building. This is your fault as well. 67% funding on special education when you promised 100 is not acceptable. Not okay. Three years in a row, you have a hundred funded special education.
TEXT> To the controller. Stop making cuts and got a plan. Stop moving the ghost. We've heard 300,000 350,000 500,000. Budget was 580,000 years. If you expect these kids to fundraise an athletic director salary, your standard mistake not going to happen. Lastly, to the board, how do you expect these kids newborn raise and has money for businesses and put that money in your hands when you can't manage your own budget? Please explain $42 million. How do you going to manage whatever number he's going to decide to pull  in air and tell us sports are cut, you don't need $580,000 to fund all sports. Give us the line items, tell us what we need and we'll make it happen. Hello, everyone. I'm. I live in Ward three and I'm a rising senior at Stevens this year. Much like all of you, I too am scared for the future. I have so much going for me here at Stevens. I'm on the field hockey team. I work for CCTV, I'm involved in music, and I run the student newspaper, which I put my heart soul into creating.
NEXT> Unidentified: I also transferred to Stevens last year, and I really do not want to go to a third high school. That being said, I think it is important to acknowledge

[16786-86] Leslie Peabody | Public commenter, Ward 1 (teacher, parent, former SAU office employee) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Leslie Peabody: is fly at the new building or is it in the tech center? I wasn't I wasn't clear on that either. It was a little bit confused on it. So do you actually have to support those ten kids coming back from out of district?
TEXT> Because I know that that is a heavy burden. So we want to make sure you have the staff for that. And what's plan B if it doesn't work out? Because I know full well because I did this, but eight stuff, you can't say no.  Right. And so we're going to have to put that bill somehow. Thank you for the morning. So what's plan B?  And this we know we all know this has been happening over five years, at least over five years. Okay. So why are we so desperate to tell everything right this second? Like what? What happened? Like, this has been an ongoing debt, so I know we need to fix it, but holy moly, we're all stressed out. Okay, so,  these cuts are going to impact student experience and learning no matter how we look at it guys. And that's for sports and extracurricular. Okay, I'm going to take this drama cat I love you drama okay. As for sports and extracurriculars, we're going to make it work guys. We're going to be okay. So parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, friends, whatever. Step up. We're going to be okay. We're going to get through this. You have games this week. It's going to happen. We've got this. It'll be all right. Right in the neighboring district.
NEXT> Unidentified: And I feel for the remaining teachers. Teachers are to go above and beyond what we what we are paying for. I already have 14 of my own hours and

[16786-90] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - former school district employee; name | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: to be clean. Are they going to be secure? You know, those are all questions like the daytime custodian he picked up the puke and what some of the trash out, you know. But really the nighttime people do like you know. So. Let's see.
TEXT> How many. Another question that  somebody else asked is the the how much money we wasted on previous admin last five years. And then that's that's pretty significant answer that put  a toll on the 5 million. And  is the Maple Avenue new Maple Avenue building going to continue. That's awesome. Good evening everyone. I'm no longer a Claremont resident, but I am a Stevens alum and care deeply about the future of this school. I've been following along as this crisis unfolds, and I know there are several representatives here in the audience tonight, and I want to use my time to address them for those in attendance. Thank you for taking the time  out of your night to be here. My question for you is why has the state not stepped in to offer more support, to guarantee the programs these kids rely on are not cut? At the last meeting, the Commissioner of Education stated this is a local issue. Since when is a school in a historic deficit something that does not impact not only this community, but the surrounding areas for the rents who are not here?
NEXT> Unidentified: Why would you have not taken the time out of your day to be here with the people who elected you into office? A couple of weeks ago, I emailed

[16786-93] Cameron | Public commenter, Ward 2 (uncertain - first name and ward from garbled | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: those programs where they can't even adequately run a successful program, the materials to train the students, then you might as well sell the equipment, sell the building, which I feel like been a goal for years in this district. Thank you. Ward three again.
TEXT> It was a couple of things that I just wanted to throw out there. Finish up here. Out of 81 districts in New Hampshire, permanent rates for the city.  Our kids are 31% proficient in reading, 23% efficiency, and we spend $4,000 more per student than the national average. The average income for a household in this town was $24,000 lower national average, and our graduation rate is 77%. So  the administration seems to be, in summary, where everybody wants to see notes. You mentioned at the beginning of the meeting of the plan to vote tonight. It seems pretty clear that the sports program is not something that your constituent is okay with. It does seem we are upset that we're okay with seeing the administration go is they're not doing a good job. That's why we got into this mess. The fields. Once you bring the kids out into the fields, the ratio of teachers and student changes. You can have 100 kids on the field by teachers. We don't have to jam all the classrooms. We still have some good seasons. Want to see the kids outside would be a dramatic improvement, and it would give us a little bit of light back.
NEXT> Cameron: After this debacle is over. That all the teachers, the administration that have left would see the improvement by making sure that we're outside and we're getting that energy out

[16786-94] Cameron | Public commenter, Ward 2 (uncertain - first name and ward from garbled | 2025-08-25
PREV> Cameron: can have 100 kids on the field by teachers. We don't have to jam all the classrooms. We still have some good seasons. Want to see the kids outside would be a dramatic improvement, and it would give us a little bit of light back.
TEXT> After this debacle is over. That all the teachers, the administration that have left would see the improvement  by making sure that we're outside and we're getting that energy out as much as possible, and it would really push everybody more and more of the sports programs in general. So then you'd be looking for more money for it. But that seems to be the summary from everybody here. Don't take away sports. Make sure the schools are still clean, the fields are cut, get the kids outside and get rid of the administration that's doing a terrible job. 77% of graduate. Have a great night, Cameron. Work to.
NEXT> Unidentified: Teach her in that spare. I appreciate the increased attempts at information sharing that will. I appreciate the increased attempts at information sharing vegetable you up on the stage. However,

[16786-96] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 3 (unidentified - longtime school-funding advoc | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: we deserve to know who is currently in charge. Claremont Public schools. It's not clear from where I'm standing. I know we can engage in back and forth, but I truly hope some clarification on these two items can be delivered before we. Thank you.
TEXT> Annual friend, your award three. We are in a desperate situation. Claremont is facing upwards of $5 million deficit. And for that right now the board is talking about cutting sports, dozens of teachers and programs, things no community ever wants to lose. And I take exception to the state's response. You're on your own. Yes, poor decisions over the years have helped create this crisis. Yes, responsibility lies with this district does. But I do not accept that the state has no role in this crisis, and especially with the message you're on your own. Despite multiple lawsuits, despite millions found for efforts next year with no income tax. If I'm correct, despite the constitution of the state of New Hampshire itself stating that it is the state of New Hampshire where the fuck stops? It's the state of New Hampshire that is ultimately responsible for creating a funding system that works, that's fair, that's sustainable, and that can help. And instead it is willfully refused fixable funding despite multiple court rulings. And that refusal makes it impossible for communities like ours to attract and keep the staff who need to provide the resources that our kids deserve and to withstand crises like that.
NEXT> Unidentified: School will look like tomorrow, and that's awful. But I do not accept that we're alone. The state is that chance after chance to build a fair system or resilient

[16786-97] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 3 (unidentified - longtime school-funding advoc | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: help. And instead it is willfully refused fixable funding despite multiple court rulings. And that refusal makes it impossible for communities like ours to attract and keep the staff who need to provide the resources that our kids deserve and to withstand crises like that.
TEXT> School will look like tomorrow, and that's awful. But I do not accept that we're alone. The state is that chance after chance to build a fair system or resilient system. And instead, it's not only setback, it is with millions of dollars to avoid. A train wreck like this was inevitable. Claremont is the first, but it will not be the last. Now, when there's  an injury, the first thing you do is stop the bleeding and there's blood on the floor. So I get it. Triaging the steps. It is job one. It has to be. And I applaud the board members struggling with this. You have been handed a church sandwich. It's a terrible. But as someone who's defended and supported the fight for fair, equitable, sustainable school funding, I am beyond angry. This crisis hits everything. It hits our businesses, our home values, our families, and most of all, our children. This is the moment among the fixes that we are all going to try to find, to remember how long Claremont and so many other communities have fought and painted for a fixed. And the state has kept saying no,  and now  you're on your own. Cheers. Who we sent to Concord. I hope you'll remember tonight. And remember who's fighting to try to fix this system. And who left Claremont kept blowing in the wind.
NEXT> Christina Bernard: He's Christina Bernard, more than one. I am a special education teacher who is keeping kids from coming out of this fight. And I a parent. I have a couple

[16786-100] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - parent demanding a definitive answer  | 2025-08-25
PREV> Matt Angell: office that I was going to get that done in 30 days. Usually that's the kind of job that could take me several months. So I'm working. I've been working a lot of hours to try to accomplish that. It's not working on that number.
TEXT> Okay. Now, you guys have already mentioned that you pretty much you can cut sports, but I'm sitting in the way back  and then there's whispers that it still can happen. So now as a parent, you have to ask yourself and wonder, what are we talking about here? I mean, we we need some clarification because I don't think it's fair that all these kids that have put forth this effort on the that soccer team practices all year round, the football teams have been working out and everybody's doing their part. And there's contradicting stories. So are we having a season or we not having a season? I mean, if if the athletic directors here can speak on this and say, hey, listen, you know, we have the funding to be able to carry on to fall  and then we can figure out where we're going from there. But I feel like we need to answer here. On whether or not these these kids are just standing there and suspended, not knowing what where they. And I think that's unfair. So if we have the funding to start the year, then it's no different than your budget, right? I mean, we we have to start the year and figure out how we're going to get through the start of the year.
NEXT> Unidentified: Why is it no different for sports if we can get into the winter? Don't tell me that that's called coach can't pays money to get them back. I mean,

[16786-101] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - parent demanding a definitive answer  | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: I think that's unfair. So if we have the funding to start the year, then it's no different than your budget, right? I mean, we we have to start the year and figure out how we're going to get through the start of the year.
TEXT> Why is it no different for sports if we can get into the winter? Don't tell me that that's called coach can't pays money to get them back. I mean, I just feel like it's unfair to just say, you know, we're going to cut that. These kids live it. They have to. They have to suffer through all of that crap. And now you're going to say, hey, if you guys know doing in any of this, you didn't have any. There was there was no blame to the kid in. The first thing we're going to do is punish them again. And I think it's unfair. I mean, I think we need a clear financing or we haven't sports, we not have these words, he said. My name is saying that we are, we are. I'm waiting for an answer.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Just to preface this, I sat down with the public director. He has records where he he requested in his budget certain dollar amount to run his programs. He he

[16786-113] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: And there you.
TEXT> Can you hear me now? Yes. I'm about to make a very unpopular motion. But before I do, Mr. Beaupre, I share your praise at the end in describing the situation we find us in. I also want to thank all those athletes and students who spoke. It is a credit to the school department in Claremont that our young people can get up and advocate for their schools. So thank you for joining. I would like to move that. We authorize our interim business administrator, Mr. Angel, to eliminate the 20 positions consistent, consistent with what we were presented tonight.
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely not. We're telling. You. Not to do it. What are you doing? Don't make that motion. Come up with a different plan.

[16786-118] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (speaks to her motion) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: Don't do it. So, Joe. We. Have. Plenty of. Historic times. Call for changes. Don't do it. Change everything else.
TEXT> We have been reaching out to people in the state, in the education department.  Our administrative team has been working diligently to find a way where our students can walk into school the first day and make their teachers meet their principal, breathing them well, bidding them to a new school year. This is the only way we can have our schools open. It is.
NEXT> Unidentified: What everybody else.

[16786-131] Matt Angell | Comptroller / Acting Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-08-25
PREV> Heather Whitney: I guess that is is it is discussing those positions. Thank you.
TEXT> I don't have a number for the amount of Medicare. May be revenue that we see to the beginning of the year. What? I think I can talk about Medicaid revenue in my experience. The federal government has changed how or what we can comply for. And I've seen school districts go from a lot of money to zero. It's one of those kind of revenues you can't rely upon just because it changes. And it makes it so very difficult for the students to receive that revenue. So I'm, I always recommend to my school boards, you can't rely on that revenue, especially when setting.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: And answer my question.

[16786-145] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (uncertain - merged cluster; restates his Medicaid | 2025-08-25
PREV> Mike McCosker: That is correct.
TEXT> I feel like the respect to the hard place. We need to do something to protect the school and keep the kids in school. And I feel like we're we're out of options. I, I do question  the position, the Medicaid and to help bring it to the Medicaid money.  That's one that question. All of this. Not going to sleep easy. I think very good stuff. And I don't know if there's anything any other way to go forward.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[16813-16] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (HR Director) | 2025-09-03
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: HR director? Why is he stepping in? Superintendent services. But I want to assure the public, the board and administration. We're in the process of hiring a new interim superintendent or executive director, whatever that legal LEAs is, to take responsible for the overall operations.
TEXT> That another personnel update that happened recently on August 29th, our director of student services,  Mike Oscar, abruptly resigned from his position to see you.  And currently, we're working with the assistant,  student services director to get our all the support she needs in order to navigate this in the interim. So a little bit more about  the current Saw leadership structure. So as  discussed earlier in the year six board asked me to step in and serve as temporary acting superintendent. And I just want to say,  what my vision is for my role.  I had I had my MBA but an HR  for seven years. I've managed teams before. I'm a detail oriented person.  I'm feeling my role as managing projects, tracking deliverables, tracking tasks, and make sure  we're continuous continuing to make progress. And the 100 items we have to navigate  as you,  and our current financial crisis.  So we have Michael Kosky here as assistant superintendent. I just want to assure folks education, special ed services, the whole nine yards, those are still being  covered from a leadership perspective. And I also want to underscore principals. We haven't attendance over there. We have really strong, experienced principals,  that are continuing to lead our teachers and support our students. So thank you guys.
NEXT> Patrick O'Hearn: So our immediate hiring needs, is hiring our internal superintendent for the remainder of the school year. And also just today in our office, we you know, we have a

[16813-105] Unidentified | Public commenter (parent and teacher; name not captured) | 2025-09-03
PREV> Unidentified: voices are brushed aside, and the people raising concerns are sometimes handed non-renewal slips for speaking up. There are too many dual relations and whether we want to emitter or not, that is the reality. There are no meaningful exit interviews, no true follow through.
TEXT> And this has to change. Staff deserves to be asked. They deserve to have a voice in shaping leadership. True leadership is not dictation, it is collaboration. My next point is safety. I have written letters, but because they were ignored or answered with copy and paste responses. Safety is not negotiable  and we have been left with. We may be left without an SRO. No secretaries. We have no no metal detectors. Even after past years chaos, we have larger class sizes with no sub pay a little and a little evidence of fire department and or genuine concern. Once again, decisions look like they're about money and not about the students and staff. Third, I want to talk about programs and supports. Sports are huge in our community. My kids play them all and I support the energy and fundraising around them. But we cannot ignore what's happening in the classrooms. Special education, behavioral supports social emotional learning. All of these programs are running short teachers, paraprofessionals, beacons, and trains staffed. Too often, we place responsibility on people who are certified or trained for these special IDs needs. And while they are amazing, we are overwhelming them without proper support.
NEXT> Unidentified: Meanwhile, IEPs, BibleThump and Student support services are not being fully followed through or delivered. Parents trust that the system will protect their children and right now the that trust

[16813-106] Unidentified | Public commenter (parent and teacher; name not captured) | 2025-09-03
PREV> Unidentified: social emotional learning. All of these programs are running short teachers, paraprofessionals, beacons, and trains staffed. Too often, we place responsibility on people who are certified or trained for these special IDs needs. And while they are amazing, we are overwhelming them without proper support.
TEXT> Meanwhile, IEPs, BibleThump and Student support services are not being fully followed through or delivered. Parents trust that the system will protect their children and right now the that trust is broken. We even brought a new building for our program for older students, but failing to provide the wraparound services that those students, those same students need and are receiving at a district. I know this from experience. Well, we are building programs without building support. Why? To lead means to communicate. To lead means to collaborate. To lead means no closed doors. Our community, our staff and our children deserve this kind of leadership. So tonight, I'm asking this board for three things a clear safety plan that is communicated publicly. A staff and parent survey where voices are heard without fear of retaliation. A commitment to prioritize student services.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Three minutes. If you want to get the second, go around for two minutes at three.

[16813-158] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-09-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: gets published, and that gets seen by colleges and gets seen around the state, and it affects property values. So I. Would encourage you to go back and tell you classmates to try hard on those tests. Principal Harrington, you know, I know, please do.
TEXT> I guess I'm sorry to interrupt. And  just by the way,  Lily Miles are fantastic students. I just want to thank them for being here. Yeah. Not a reflection on YouTube. Sorry. No. I appreciate that. So,  a couple of things, and I'm going to make this super brief because I am not a Claremont citizen.  Though I do love this town. Last year we recognized that,  I Mr..  And I recognized that the students. Those tests don't reflect what the students know. It doesn't. It's not meaningful for them. So we tried to, for the 10th grade, science test in the sass testing. We. 1111. Sorry. Yeah. Sorry. It's late, I haven't eaten. We tried to encourage them and them and I sat here in this auditorium and said,  you got a chance. To show the. Whole world who you are. And one of the worst things about  the worst thing that happened is the reputation this town has, because everybody goes, I was just Claremont and I hate it. And I got to tell you,  talk to these kids. And that year, I think they went from 23% proficient to 45, 46%, and we'd be above the state average.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: We were just above the state average for the previous year. And as we the kids are in one year. Okay. And the other thing is, well, I do not

[16813-159] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-09-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: reputation this town has, because everybody goes, I was just Claremont and I hate it. And I got to tell you, talk to these kids. And that year, I think they went from 23% proficient to 45, 46%, and we'd be above the state average.
TEXT> We were just above the state average for the previous year. And as we the kids are in one year. Okay. And the other thing is, well, I do not know the financials and I'm not involved in the data that they're doing. Is this high school's been here for 157 years. And trust me, I have no intention of being the last prince. On their.
NEXT> Lily Clark: Ski. Oh my God. So sorry. You said it affects colleges. Is that correct?

[16813-162] Lily Clark | Student Board Member, Claremont School Board | 2025-09-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes. Probably. Just look at school rankings across the state.
TEXT> I just want you to know that I committed to college. Early decision and everything. And they didn't even look at that. The only thing they looked at were my transcripts, and I didn't even send them my answer or anything. They not all colleges care about that. And I think it's more about the kid than the school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Yep. That's that's fine. Different colleges set different standards, but the ones who do it looks great if you're from a competitive high school.

[16813-166] Lily Clark | Student Board Member, Claremont School Board | 2025-09-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: And that is fine. You're welcome to that opinion.
TEXT> No, I. Get the kids. I'm carrying them.
NEXT> Unidentified: I have a few questions. So, I would like to know going forward what hiring process is will look like. So. And I'd like to, to ask that we please

[16813-167] Unidentified | Public commenter (educator and administrator; name not captured) | 2025-09-03
PREV> Lily Clark: No, I. Get the kids. I'm carrying them.
TEXT> I have a few questions. So, I would like to know going forward what hiring process is will look like. So. And I'd like to, to ask that we please make sure that we have community members, parents, staff, etc.. Have a seat at the table for these larger administrative positions. I think that when we have that, variety at the table, we make better decisions because everybody voices heard.  I also think it's important to hear we put up a slide about the state adequacy funding. And I'd like to know, and I think we all deserve to know what that actual state adequacy funding number is per student. What are they offering? How is that revolving access work. And I'd like to know is that number that adequacy a number based on the number that was found noncompliant in the  in the  lawsuit this year? Yes. If so, then I believe that we need to be pushing. This is not something that is legal. They need to provide us with adequate funding. And an adequate was proven to be not adequate. And I do believe that it is time for somebody to push them. And this district can do that and advance the state cost. And if we advance ourselves, we also advance our state and all of our kids benefit.
NEXT> Unidentified: I also recognize how difficult the position you all are in right now. But the basic truth is that we as taxpayers have trusted our system. We pay our taxes,

[16813-168] Unidentified | Public commenter (educator and administrator; name not captured) | 2025-09-03
PREV> Unidentified: proven to be not adequate. And I do believe that it is time for somebody to push them. And this district can do that and advance the state cost. And if we advance ourselves, we also advance our state and all of our kids benefit.
TEXT> I also recognize how difficult the position you all are in right now.  But the basic truth is that we as taxpayers have trusted our system. We pay our taxes, we support our schools, I think. I, I've not heard anybody here who is not in support of our school or our decisions. We all are in support of public education. I think our biggest wonder is three fold. One, we've done our civic duty in paying for our schools. It doesn't seem feasible that we'd be asked to repay a system that broke our trust. Two how are we fixing systems? And if you've done a nice job of explaining that, but three what is the plan to rebuild trust within the community that that piece I would like to know. You've also mentioned working with consultants as and as an educator and administrator who has worked with various consultants. I also wonder what the process is to select those consultants, what experience they have and what results they've had in the past. I'm also extremely concerned about how we're going to make sure that our students are making adequate growth, each meeting benchmarks, and I'd like to see a comprehensive academic plan that dovetails with the new budget for the 27 school year.
NEXT> Unidentified: This speaks to tier 123 instruction all assessment plans, including universal screeners, benchmark processes and the support that's needed to make this happen. And then finally, I have one last

[16813-178] Unidentified | Public commenter (father and coach, Department of Defense background;  | 2025-09-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: have attended at least 1 to 2 with not more, but they are available. And having worked as an educator in multiple states, I can tell you that this school board association does an excellent job of turning, and we do take advantage of it.
TEXT> I want. To say. You want to applaud you for being up here and kind of being on the hot seat in the public sector. For nine years. I was in the Department of Defense service and in the service. When you lose taxpayer dollars in the form of assets accountable. There's no there's pointing fingers, there's an official investigation. Whoever's all it was, it's helped probable there are structures put in place on. Very happy that you guys are starting to do that. It seemed like there wasn't any. So that's very good  to hear that. I'm up here as a father and a coach. Speaking for the kids, I think we have a very important and powerful position that you're in right now, not in anything that you're doing to fix it more in what you can do on the lines that are in this school. And that is show them that when someone messes up, you hold them accountable, doesn't mean you burn them.  State doesn't mean you put them on social media and say it was this person, crucify him. It was this is what happened. This is being extremely transparent. Show them and teach them that you can be someone who holds people accountable.
NEXT> Unidentified: Show them what that looks like. Make sure that they know when they grow up. This is the example they said, because they are the future. And if this continues

[16813-183] Unidentified | Audience interjection during public hearing (voice not identifiable) | 2025-09-03
PREV> Chris Cogswell: to the next town. How do we make sure that they lose their accreditation, that they are not allowed to work in a school ever again in New Hampshire or the United States? That is the question I think we need to find out here.
TEXT> Because they robbed our kids.
NEXT> Chris Cogswell: Well, exactly right. And it may not be malfeasance. It could just be bad work. Right? But then they do not get to have access to taxpayer funds. Thank you.

[16813-186] Unidentified | Public commenter (former Claremont School District special-education s | 2025-09-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much.
TEXT> Well, here again tonight. Because I'm angry. I'm angry because I feel like the school district that I love has been wrecked. I'm. And that we're even in a position to the fact that we're begging for a bank, for a loan. I understand up here tonight, I don't have any questions. I gotta stand up for three groups of people. The first is the 39 employees that were laid off. Great teachers, great educators, people who have worked in this district for decades don't work here anymore. I don't like I there's no excuse for that. There's no excuse for that. They're being punished for something that they did not do. Partners for something that the administration did and state to the second group of people is the special education kids that I worked with in the Claremont School District for seven years. These kids have a lot of needs. They have a lot of behaviors. I can show you the scars on my body. Okay. You gotta figure it out. These people are these kids. I. I know we're in that. I know, but you got to figure it out, because these kids need the support, and you got to figure it out.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah. The third group of people that I'm up here to stand up for are the taxpayers. That's because I stood up. I, I listened tonight, and I heard from

[16813-248] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member, Claremont School Board; SAU 6 Board Chair; Policy | 2025-09-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: pursuant to RSA 198, code 20 D and the applicable provisions of Rs 833. The district held a public hearing on September 3rd, 2025, to consider issuance of a note and provided notice of said public hearing by publication no later than August 27th, 2025.
TEXT> The rate that the Superintendent and business administrator, acting singly, are authorized to execute and deliver an acceptance of a proposal by Claremont Savings Bank to provide a revolving line of credit and principal amount of $4 million. The bank proposal, which acceptance shall be on such terms, including amendments thereto and in such form as the Superintendent or Business Administrator, may approve setting out to be conclusively evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof, and any such prior action by the Superintendent or Business Administrator is hereby ratified and confirmed for the. Pursuant to the authorizations, a majority of the School Board and the treasurer in the name and on behalf of the district, are authorized to execute and deliver a note of Claremont Savings Bank to provide a revolving line of credit in the principal amount of $4 million in interest of adequacy. Education grants. Fiscal year 2026, to be provided by the New Hampshire Department of Education to the district on such terms and in such form as the School Board, may approve such approval to be conclusively evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof, and which terms shall be substantially on the term set forth in the Bank proposal as accepted or no.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Five and pursuant to an August 21st, 2025, letter from the New Hampshire Department of Education, the district district's fiscal year 2026 adequacy education grant totals $16,931,006.67 to be provided

[16813-258] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-09-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: the chair of the finance subcommittee. And we're looking for somebody who was step up and assume that position of of chair. Is there any nominations or anybody that is willing to take that position? This is not a vote position, but a consensus. Position.
TEXT> This nominates  Mr.. Is there anybody in opposition on the board from the nomination?  Seeing no opposition, Miss Crawford will assume the seat of the chair of the finance subcommittee if she so accepts. Thank you, Miss Crawford. Moving on to our  six item on the agenda.  There is  we have a board representative who serves as a delegate for the New Hampshire School Board Association, and we are seeking resolutions and request on legislation on behalf of the board. As an independent citizen.  I, wrote a letter to local representatives and a request of things that  to to appoint what folks are asking for. How can we never have this happen again?  I had some requests of the legislature that could provide some safeguards and processes that are required by state law to ensure that  all things are done as they should be done and not left to chance or are not left to,  historic board reference or past practices, which I think is  been a chronic problem in this district and culminating  with our situation today.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And, my request for Mr. Howard, if he was willing or if the board was willing, was to bring this forward as a resolution. And the three things that we

[16813-264] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-09-03
PREV> Unidentified: Put the information out there. So it's not one school board member posting from their personal Facebook page information and then another school remember me posting information on theirs. It's an official school board page. So that would be my recommendation. Recommendation to better communicate.
TEXT> Given the our. We probably don't have an opportunity or time to fully discuss it and flesh out who would be responsible for it, but the content would be, but we can put that on. There are special meeting. That would be on the 24th or our next school board meeting. I'd like to get some input from the board if you would email me with your preferential dates. His agendas are too heavy, and we want to make sure we have enough time to really discuss it. So just let me know  what you prefer. Our, subcommittee reports are, probably not going to be very robust because we've been, except for the policy committee, who's been continuing to work very hard.  So we're going to just focus on the policy subcommittee  report and then a quick brief  other business and close the meeting. Thank you. Those of you who are still here. The. Hours late. And I just want to say thank you to the building level administrators and the other people sitting here from the district you guys have been working on. How do we make this better? How do we make it more efficient and have been spending a lot of hours. So on behalf of the board, I want to thank you all for doing that. Principals, everybody. Thank you.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you. All right. So we did it. We were asked to talk about policies and we put the information together. And I want to thank Mr. Howard for the

[16820-20] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Human Resources Director) | 2025-09-04
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Moving on to item number two. Staffing update, Mr. O'Hearn.
TEXT> So, one, to provide an update of where we are in the six office. We had some recent resignations. We had a resignation from our director student services. We also this week had a abrupt resignation from our  curriculum director.  And as I advised at the Claremont School Board meeting yesterday, we have engaged some, consultants. We have,  a lady by the name of Terry Gear who's helping out with Sped. She's working probably up to around ten hours a week. Her main focus currently is very narrow. It's looking at the resources we have currently with the Sped function, seeing how we can reallocate to make sure we're legally, legally compliant  and meeting the needs of our students.  We've engaged a superintendent consultant. Also, he's made about one day a week of support right now. And then we also,  are in the process of looking at some other folks that may help out.  I think there's time that we need to take and diligence and care to consider the efficiencies, or lack thereof, of the six office at all.  But right now, I think we have to wait a little bit to staffing needs. And one position that, you know, we could discuss is the curriculum director rule.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Right now, that position is vacant. Vacant currently. And that is an essay position.

[16831-8] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Heather Whitney: a question. So what I'm hearing right up front is that we have given the resignations that we've had, given our current staffing model. The belief is that our teaching and learning supports are still enough to mitigate any, detrimental effects to students as education.
TEXT> I wouldn't say quite like that.  We are  short of several staff members in bluff and at maximum capacity of teachers to students in the other elementary schools in many grades. So while we would have limited impact, there is an impact and we wish it to be less an impact on the students. We believe the consolidation plan would give them more opportunity to have  a better adult teacher ratio. A teacher power ratio to meet their needs.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr..

[16831-62] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Public comment on. Either.
TEXT> So here's the reason for this plan. It would allow us to better use our resources across many. Areas more efficiently. So, for example, right now in second grade, left has 24 students in their second grade classroom business has 24 students in their two separate classrooms. Maple only has 12 students in their second grade classrooms. By moving those grades together, we can more evenly distribute the students more, much more efficiently. Use the teacher resources we have, our resources we have in special education resources we have. It will also allow for better sharing with structural practice, materials, resources because all the grades will be in the same school working together. That would allow us to create what we hope to call grade level centers of excellence, where any,  whether that be an instructional practice or a resource or material shared in the classroom, and then be shared across all those teacher grades and used for all students instead of only at the one elementary school where it may exist.
NEXT> Patrick O'Hearn: And I call it consolidation will we will have more resources per student currently there, spread so thin across the three elementary schools that we cannot meet the educational, compliance

[16831-63] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: of excellence, where any, whether that be an instructional practice or a resource or material shared in the classroom, and then be shared across all those teacher grades and used for all students instead of only at the one elementary school where it may exist.
TEXT> And I call it consolidation will we will have more resources per student currently there, spread so thin across the three elementary schools that we cannot meet the educational, compliance requirements of any of those students. So it will sustain and strengthen staff support because they will have more access to more things and more, colleagues. And so right now, it doesn't allow us to meet the requirements as the district is structured,  those  at 306 and federal special education requirements.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Impact will yield just modest short term savings between 60 and 65,000. After we winterize the building.

[16831-72] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Come on.
TEXT> Teachers would be in their new classrooms to win back materials and get their classroom set up.  First day of it's being back October 15th. And then we would  continue for the rest of the year working on stabilizing that move situation, honoring student performance, and receiving parent feedback. Now these proposed times, they are not set in stone yet, but it is  is laid out there as an outline of how we hope that this could go. So I know there's going to be a lot of concerns.  Especially since families and staff members for learning abruptly right now in a board meeting. Yeah. Yes, we recognize that.
NEXT> Unidentified: We're so valued. Thank you. Very thanks.

[16831-74] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: We're so valued. Thank you. Very thanks.
TEXT> And we are sorry that we have to  propose that. So we recognize that families may have students in different buildings. We are going to engage,  efforts with transportation to see what we can do to mitigate, really,  harm and difficulties for,  transportation needs for folks that are affected.  Right. As soon as the plan would be adopted, plastic routes would start to be created. Will communicate this with families with do notice classes time. And we want to talk a little bit about oh sure. So so we would work as best as possible to keep teachers, current teachers and current students together in this plan. It would not be possible completely for all students, but we would we would try to maximize the or not maximize minimize the least amount of disruption for the students who are currently with their teachers in those classrooms. So if this is successful, what would it look like? The consolidation would be implemented over time and would launch on October 15th or the date chosen thereabouts. Parents would be notified by October 7th as to their classroom assignment of students, bus routes, their teacher, and all the other information that may be related to their students, counselors, special education powers, things like that.
NEXT> Patrick O'Hearn: We would have a smooth transition with minimal student absenteeism and safety incidences during that first month. There would be no further media disruption with this plan. We would be

[16831-78] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-09-10
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: Yes.
TEXT> So  the board is indulging me, and when we start first. If that's okay. I have a number of questions. And as probably most people in the room know, and I know legacy board members know that I have always supported,  that both times that we have brought reconfiguration of schools forward. I believe that the way we have managed our resources in the district have been poor, and I believe that they have not been maximized. It's been very frustrating to me.  The board has implemented we have made  professional development a cornerstone of what we believed our students and teachers would benefit from. We supported having the structural coaches in  our schools, similar to I think Mr. Angel is talking about a much higher level.  But we were able to finance that. So I'm not in opposition of  school consolidation. My,  my my discomfort right now about this is  I was I would like to believe that we were brought to this point today because of concerns at the building level from boots on the ground folks, that we were unable to meet the academic needs of the safety needs and the special education needs of the students. To me, that was required urgent action on part of the board.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And and specifically, this was a bluff issue. And initially the proposal before us was, to reallocate bluff students so that those needs can be met. I've heard what I

[16831-82] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Loren Howard: I have. One question. Excuse me. And you've referenced that, that we can't meet our educational in the current configuration. Can you elaborate a little more on what that means to a layperson? Educational obligations. And if we do not reorganize, what are the consequences?
TEXT> So one of one of the examples I can give you is, is in special education, we have some special education teachers with a, a student load of in the 40s almost 50. We have others with a student loan in the 20s.  While there's no New Hampshire rule about how many, I don't believe how many students  a case manager can have, it becomes impossible to deliver those services that are in the IEPs with those numbers. If we move a student out of one of the schools that has a smaller number of students to a school with the bigger number of students,  then we end up with two schools with big numbers of students, and we end up in the 30s instead of one with almost 50. We end up with two and 30. We're still not meeting the requirements of the student's IEPs. And so we really that's an example of why we need to consolidate those resources.  So we can't fill the needs by just moving staff, which would be much less disruptive. I understand that. But in the way our staff are distributed and the needs of the students are not matching up, and we're not going to be able to meet those needs in our current configuration. Does that help?
NEXT> Loren Howard: So if we can't make those needs, what are the consequences?

[16831-84] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Loren Howard: So if we can't make those needs, what are the consequences?
TEXT> Well, there's  the possibilities of lawsuits.  There's a due process violation where students these these are legal documents that we are required to meet for the students education.  And we would make ourselves open to a whole bunch of repercussions, both legally and in compliance documents. I just want to be clear. The status quo is morally unacceptable. With with. Inaction, we would not adequately serve. The community of Claremont. That desperately. Deserves adequate education.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is there any anybody else on the board who would like to ask a question before we have repeat question answers? Okay. Okay. Can't use.

[16831-123] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. General education. General education.
TEXT> Okay. Without having to teach or anything like that, with not having to go, like folks having to double up classrooms or what have you. Do you feel there's an educational deficit for the students that are at bluff right now with the current configuration.
NEXT> Unidentified: And educational deficit? No, I mean, teachers are still teaching and they're still, you know, and really, I have one, one class and that's that's high. And the really high

[16831-135] Martin Lutz | Maple Avenue School Principal (name as self-announced; not on project  | 2025-09-10
PREV> Heather Whitney: of people have been hurt. And any action that I need to make moving forward, I feel, has to be the benefit of the district as a whole. Absolutely. And so I think it's important that you hear from Mr.. Yes, please. From Maple first.
TEXT> Okay. Excuse me. I'm Martin lutz principal at Maple avenue. This is a difficult decision. And I'm going to say. That, you know, the timing of this proposal is not now, we've talked about, our class sizes, we've talked about features. Stepping up, doing all they can with large class sizes in, throughout throughout the system. You know, it varies. As Melissa pointed out, one of the things we have to consider in this change, this change affects an entire system K through five. I think. To try to address the needs that is facing is not to disrupt the whole system, right. So. I think, one of the things that needs to be considered is the human element. We have to consider the folks that educate our kids every day.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[16831-137] Martin Lutz | Maple Avenue School Principal (name as self-announced; not on project  | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> To move an entire system and the window that's being proposed in this scenario is really something that takes a little bit longer. Planning something that you would that you would really spend some time and make that transition in a year. But to address the immediate needs. I believe a softer approach would be to look at moving our bluff friends, family, our kids. There are kids with a lot of community. We have space and desire. We have space and maple. They can bring their community with them, with their teachers and and lock them into our two schools for the year. They maintain their integrity as a family, as a community. We can, we can, mitigate this, this severe, crisis that is facing with a softer approach without disrupting the current. A by configuration at Maple and at business. I that's where my beliefs are for this current situation that we are facing. I think it's a softer approach. And, I'll leave that and.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's a softer approach to, defer. This. Decision to a. Later thing. Well. Somebody. Please tell. Me the decision making process. Of why. We're not presented with that plan tonight.

[16831-139] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's a softer approach to, defer. This. Decision to a. Later thing. Well. Somebody. Please tell. Me the decision making process. Of why. We're not presented with that plan tonight. And instead. We're having.
TEXT> Yeah. So I'm just going to be, you know, continue to be as transparent as I can with the process.  The principles that broached administration,  saying we needed intervention at bluff immediately.  And the plan the principals had put together or worked on and, and  worked on with him was a softer approach, which was assimilating bluff into nard and maple. Upon work with our special ed consultants, and, and other advisors,  I advised a stronger push of the 235 consolidation. And the reason, for my  advocacy for a fuller step, I absolutely recognize it is extremely disruptive. But for me, there was a there's an existential risk at play. I'm just going to be candid and honest in my heart. I did not want to be in a position where a few months down the line, we wished we would have gotten farther, and for me, it would. There was a calculus involved, and I felt that it was better to try to  get as much closure and clarity as possible. And when we're faced with extreme, consequences and risks, truly failing to meet the needs of our students having significant cash situations, I do not want us to be back on the table having to consider,  a further move.
NEXT> Patrick O'Hearn: And I believe that a fuller consolidation of K-2 in three five to a fuller extent mitigated the any attrition that may occur, because this is a very difficult time

[16831-153] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Michael Petrin: network. People talk about moving all elementary and middle school, moving middle school to the high school, and that, you know, that's a bigger plan that I think we need to discuss all the options. And. Requires that. Have options laid out of the Premier.
TEXT> Thank you, Mr. Peterson. I  appreciate your questions. And, I can appreciate the fact that you want to have a few plans and conduct a proper cost benefit analysis, but I do want to iterate a certain point. And that's the sense of urgency that's currently facing us at Bluff Elementary.  We have to act soon, if not now, immediately, to meet the needs for these students. We have  certain contractual obligations, a 30 day notification period with the SRE. So each day we, we delay, you know, you're you're looking at a minimum of 30 calendar days after it before we get the plan. And furthermore,  I'm very confident the work that has been done,  you know, the, the, the administration is tasked the principals with the difficult decision of making those assignments. If bluff were to be relocated to discarded maple. And we have a pretty solid idea of what those assignments. In fact, we have them. We have the assignments. We have the brass tacks.  If Miss Pamela wants to speak on transportation needs, certainly feel free to come to the podium.  But I will say I do have  very strong confidence. If the board did not move to the Fuller K 235 consolidation plan and were to act on  bluff closure and  with a continuation as much classroom assignments, keeping the same teachers going into design and Maple. I have the utmost confidence that we could,  make sure that happens by by Nick Tober.
NEXT> Loren Howard: How. Many. Teachers would have to resign as a result of this? To defeat the purpose of the teacher to student ratio, we're setting out to achieve a name I

[16831-167] Theresa Clark | Public commenter -- Bluff School parent (as announced; not on public r | 2025-09-10
PREV> Alicia Simoneau: Please don't close love school this year. Give us one more year. Good for you. Hi, my name is Theresa Clark and I'm a parent of a child at Bluff School. I've watched these meetings from home and I have to say, it's deeply disheartening.
TEXT> It's painful to see a group of adults entrusted with our children's education behave like children themselves, pointing fingers, dodging responsibility and refusing to own the decisions that have brought us here. We're told that due to contracts, we have to keep paying the very individuals responsible for this financial crisis, while the people who care for, teach and protect our children every day are the ones being let go. Estonian state support part of our. Schools. Yet they're the ones being cut while administrative roles were being untouched. How was that justifiable? And now we find out on Facebook that love is back on the chopping block. Just weeks ago, you said you wouldn't close. But now we hear bluff can't meet its legal obligations to students because of your cuts. To make it even worse, the school told our children it's closing before the parents were informed. That is unacceptable. Except for blindsided by our own kids coming home in tears asking questions we weren't prepared to answer.  We've been told to. Or where is leadership? Where is the planning? Where is the concern for our kids? We've been told to figure it out and we have families. Teachers and staff have done everything they can. Now it's your turn. You figure it out.
NEXT> Theresa Clark: You knew what was needed for a bluff to operate and you failed to deliver. Three weeks into school. Now you want our children and teachers to start over, to

[16831-168] Theresa Clark | Public commenter -- Bluff School parent (as announced; not on public r | 2025-09-10
PREV> Theresa Clark: been told to. Or where is leadership? Where is the planning? Where is the concern for our kids? We've been told to figure it out and we have families. Teachers and staff have done everything they can. Now it's your turn. You figure it out.
TEXT> You knew what was needed for a bluff to operate and you failed to deliver. Three weeks into school. Now you want our children and teachers to start over, to endure the anxiety of a second first day of school. If you couldn't staff the building, you shouldn't have opened it. At least then students wouldn't have to suffer the emotional disruption. These are young kids. They need stability and structure, not chaos and confusion. The message are sending them is we can't do our job, so now you have to deal with it. You claim closing bluff will save money, but at what cost to our children? You're shuffling of other staff daily. Why not do it with special education support? If that's the issue, why is it always the families and students being asked to sacrifice? Let's not forget many families rely on bluff for free lunch. If students are moved, will that program follow them? Well, there needs to be met. Or is this just another thing families will be left to figure out on their own? Honestly, I don't know why we base our breath telling you these things when you made it painfully clear you don't care.
NEXT> Theresa Clark: You've already made your decision behind closed doors, without a public hearing, without a vote. You just expect us to accept it. Well, we don't and we won't. We want

[16831-169] Theresa Clark | Public commenter -- Bluff School parent (as announced; not on public r | 2025-09-10
PREV> Theresa Clark: them? Well, there needs to be met. Or is this just another thing families will be left to figure out on their own? Honestly, I don't know why we base our breath telling you these things when you made it painfully clear you don't care.
TEXT> You've already made your decision behind closed doors, without a public hearing, without a vote. You just expect us to accept it. Well, we don't and we won't. We want our kids to have stability. We want the transparency. And I'm not saying closing the school is wrong. What I'm saying is they should have been done before school started. Not once the kids have settled in. We need the people responsible for this mess to stand up and take accountability for their mistakes. And stop taking it out on the kids. Do something right for these children's for once, because so far your leadership has done nothing but failed. End and fail us.
NEXT> Unidentified: Company animation and I'm. From blink three. I am an educator in the Claremont School District and I have been for 22 years. It actually feels like this may be

[16831-170] Unidentified | Public commenter -- 22-year Claremont educator speaking for teachers ( | 2025-09-10
PREV> Theresa Clark: the people responsible for this mess to stand up and take accountability for their mistakes. And stop taking it out on the kids. Do something right for these children's for once, because so far your leadership has done nothing but failed. End and fail us.
TEXT> Company animation and I'm. From blink three. I am an educator in the Claremont School District and I have been for 22 years. It actually feels like this may be following you and yours. Come on, you got this. Thank you. Dedicated teachers here. And in those schools. And we do not feel valued. We do not feel valued when we. Are learning. When I'm when I think, when I learn about this reconsolidation. Idea on social media, media,  prior to those. Who and actually impacts unacceptable and shame on you. Shame on you. If you actually get to this, you would have pulled us into this auditorium well before anyone in this community knew about it. Yeah, you. Would. Never do that. That I, you know, think about actually walking away, and it's unacceptable out of compliance. I understand I'm not going to address the reconsolidation. I am here to speak for teachers because we are the backbone. We are the frontline workers, and we talk about trauma education as a and we've put tons of money into that over the years. What about the trauma? To us this is traumatic. It is traumatic for the children of this community, and it is far more traumatic to us because we have to love on them and make it regular, a regular day. Shame on you. And it's snakey. I find this snakey that. Is snake. If don't do that to us, you fail.
NEXT> Unidentified: Us or we walk away. And I'm going to tell you something right now. There's going to be a whole lot of people. Mass exodus.

[16831-178] John | Public commenter, Ward 3 -- identifies as a school principal (first na | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Please get them all.
TEXT> What about this? I'm in more than three. Thank you. John. I came here this evening, just. As everyone else did, with the idea that perhaps consolidation sounded like a reasonable  solution to a situation that we were in and given the presentation and then listening to the principals. I have to tell you, I'm a little  biased. I stand with them as I am also a school principal. Your school principals know the brown. They know what they can do and they know what they can't do. You need to trust your school principals and to come in here with a clear divide between your staff and your school principals is unacceptable. Absolutely unacceptable. It is unacceptable to me to hear saw staff come in without numbers. Yeah. To tell us as taxpayers that there is an idea that perhaps we might have some number of things, but we don't have numbers. That is unconscionable when you are talking about children. We are talking about students, three year olds, four year olds, five year olds that we are going to have to move in the middle of a year that they have already started. This is unconscionable. SDL practices need to be interwoven into everything that we do. We need to be thinking about the well-being of our students beyond just numbers.
NEXT> John: And I understand our number crunching right now that this is unconscionable. I will also tell you standing here, John Hattie is a name in education that pops up all

[16831-179] John | Public commenter, Ward 3 -- identifies as a school principal (first na | 2025-09-10
PREV> John: are going to have to move in the middle of a year that they have already started. This is unconscionable. SDL practices need to be interwoven into everything that we do. We need to be thinking about the well-being of our students beyond just numbers.
TEXT> And I understand our number crunching right now that this is unconscionable. I will also tell you standing here, John Hattie is a name in education that pops up all over the place.  There's an effectiveness study, and I will tell you that the number one thing that we can do to impact student learning is collective teacher efficacy. Right now,  I'm not seeing it.
NEXT> Unidentified: And I'm not. So I'm a parent also on the PTO at bluff. And we're I'm still baffled by the fact that you want to close bluff because one person

[16831-180] Unidentified | Public commenter -- Bluff PTO parent (name not stated) (segment opens  | 2025-09-10
PREV> John: Hattie is a name in education that pops up all over the place. There's an effectiveness study, and I will tell you that the number one thing that we can do to impact student learning is collective teacher efficacy. Right now, I'm not seeing it.
TEXT> And I'm not. So I'm a parent also on the PTO at bluff. And we're I'm still baffled by the fact that you want to close bluff because one person resign. That makes absolutely no sense to me. So,  you're going to move 200 people around the city because one person isn't in the building, and I might be wrong about that, but whatever. Why can't we hire rehire that person? I think that's what Mr. Madden was asking. I love that question. Thank you so much. Why are we not rehiring the person that was already here at the start of the school year? We have contracts. We have multiple contractors that we can use and they would totally be willing to do it. You just have to put it out there. And what about the student services coordinator that's already there? I know she's probably swamped, but anyway, and like a couple case managers have that have like lighter loads pushed into bluff like as a temporary solution until we find somebody there is a shift to this not floating an entire building. And are you considering the mental health of your students and your staff and your parents?
NEXT> Unidentified: Parents. I'm dying. Like I. Okay. I'm pretending I'm fine. I'm not fine. Okay. Our parents with this emergency rush. Okay. To just shove everyone to a new building. Have

[16831-183] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 2 -- spoke on prior consolidation plans (name g | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: the committee with all stakeholders could be put together to make a plan that would benefit the teachers and students in this district. This is not sound like it's coming from transparency or a comprehensive committee that has been put together. What is the best?
TEXT> Moving middle six weeks into the year? We are not going to lose staff. What? Like who would stay in this situation? Second, I forgot to say that I wanted to open up and thank every single teacher. For everything they are. I didn't have any children left. Again another year. And after grandma my husband at home. Charter presentation that is online now,  that part of the objectives is to be transparent and communicate with all of the community and moving forward. One hour  for the meeting is not communicative to your community or  transparent. That's good. We are assuming this is and allow our teachers midyear to move them, that this new department is going to approve this. All we tell our students and our teachers, give your kids six weeks to adjust to the classrooms. Six weeks you're going to uproot them and move them to new buildings to adjust again. How are we not? They're learning. Also, a way to see this is my son, Emmett. He's six. How many kids like this are heavy right now? Who are doing what they they can do? They have already been resilient. You have put them in bigger class sizes. How much more can we ask from our little people? Good. We're listening to our building principles for in the buildings every single day, not. To our HR production.
NEXT> Unidentified: Have to adjust how we are writing our IEPs. That concerns me because they're a federal law to be followed. And. I'm that's all I'm going to say. I think

[16831-186] Erica Abby | Public commenter, Ward 3 -- parent of a special-needs student (as anno | 2025-09-10
PREV> Erica Abby: year left. So you asked the current special ed director for her input. What are her qualifications? What does she know? How do I know what she knows? How do I know she's making decisions based on longevity and education that she's supposed to have?
TEXT> And unfortunately, sorry if it immersive you. But same thing that the interim superintendent. What are his. Well we are just putting people in places now to fill the empty space. We are not checking. Qualification for because we. And still didn't know what we're doing. So now we're just going to throw it all to the wind and hire whoever and put them in place. How can you go forward anything without having the credentials needed to study? Provide their wisdom that they have observed. We're not in doing that anymore. Whether it's a New Hampshire statue or not, what's best for our kids should be the the deciding factor. And. To end it. Yeah. Where are the numbers that we were promised?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[16831-192] Rachel | Public commenter, Ward 1 -- Bluff parent, West Central Behavioral Heal | 2025-09-10
PREV> Rachel: that money? No, but here we are. So don't you dare disrespect any teacher at bluff to dismiss them by not holding a conversation, by not being transparent to your community that has done nothing wrong except show up, support and pay their taxes properly.
TEXT> Do not disrespect one of those teachers. I also am coming from a woman who works at my Central Behavioral Health and Management for 80 kids in Claremont. It takes one  trusted adult to make a kid feel safe, loved, and seen. Out of my needy students in this school district, when I ask them what their trusted adult is, it is a teacher. For you is for. Their own situations, half of which have extreme levels of trauma that you are now going to put them in a situation to activate all of their RT traumatic life experiences. Guess what? Their children, they're not robots. They can't be in burst or a hurricane. Day after day after day. That is not okay to ask them of that. It's not okay to ask staff to manage that. And it is not okay to ask the parents to pick up shattered pieces time and time again, because. Money is not even in the proper communication. Is ineffective. And you continuously disrespect the teachers by saying we're being transparent. No they're not. If you were being truly transparent, you would say, what sucks to hear every one of these teachers are the reason I stayed in Claremont, because they showed up with my daughter, they showed up for our son, and they show up for every kid that has no one else. Don't you dare disrespect them like that.
NEXT> Rachel: And by making decisions without trusting the administrators who are physically in the building with these beautiful babies, that is not being leaders in inspiring and engaging with our community

[16831-193] Rachel | Public commenter, Ward 1 -- Bluff parent, West Central Behavioral Heal | 2025-09-10
PREV> Rachel: hear every one of these teachers are the reason I stayed in Claremont, because they showed up with my daughter, they showed up for our son, and they show up for every kid that has no one else. Don't you dare disrespect them like that.
TEXT> And by making decisions without trusting the administrators who are physically in the building with these beautiful babies, that is not being leaders in inspiring and engaging with our community and our stakeholders and our teachers and our students. And it is definitely not empowering anyone in this situation. That's right.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[16831-195] Emily LeBlanc | Public commenter -- fifth-grade teacher, Maple Avenue School (as annou | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Hi. My name is Emily LeBlanc. I'm an educator at Maple Avenue Elementary School. I teach fifth grade. I right now am scared and pulled that you are not listening to what we are all saying. Okay, we could have handled as my principal stated, we could have handled a soft change if we had to move kids. We were already prepared to start handling a soft change. This is detrimental. Our teachers could handle a soft change. It would be difficult. We wouldn't like it. We could handle it. Our students could handle a soft change. This is ridiculous. You would like to uproot everybody's lives in a couple of days and send a whole bunch of new kids that we have never met to any of our buildings, and expect them to fit in and get along perfectly. And you expect us to teach like nothing is going on. You expect us to teach like we're happy about it. You expect us to teach like we didn't lose half of our school building to other schools because you move them? I think you can tell we're all angry.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[16831-197] Emily LeBlanc | Public commenter -- fifth-grade teacher, Maple Avenue School (as annou | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> Okay. I work my butt off for my kids. My coworkers work their butts off for their kids. You have no right to move any of our students to any other schools where they are not comfortable, where they are not welcome, where they do not know the staff who already work there. And you want to do this in a couple of days. How dare you? I don't know how you think this is a good idea. Again, soft change can be handled. I hope you can tell that I'm mad and I'm a little appalled that some of you are not listening. I would also like to point out that we are stretched so thin already, and you would like to point our kids this. We have no guidance counselors, we don't have a lot of support staff, and you would like to put more students through something dramatic. And you're expecting us not only to increase our workload, but to increase the emotional needs that we have to deal with. Because you're dropping it all on us because we have nobody to help. If you're going to add support systems, support bluff, don't try to send support systems to our schools. After you close, bluff down. Send them to bluff.
NEXT> Unidentified: Who?

[16831-200] Unidentified | Audience member (reaction/interjection from the floor) | 2025-09-10
PREV> Emily LeBlanc: all this and all of our testimonies, and then go ahead and vote. Regardless of what we say, you have already lost the trust of everybody in this room. You've lost the trust of the teachers, the parents and the students. Make the right decision.
TEXT> Good for you. I want to start by saying that I have the deepest and  most compassion and appreciation for all of the teachers who have spoken today, who are applauding, who are commenting. I can't thank you all personally. But as a parent of Hearts Pair and a citizen of Claremont, I do thank you. I also want to say if any of my comments to the board are unpopular, please know that that does not lower my thanks and compassion for everything that you do for our students. Each of the board meetings that we have had since this really came to a head at a meeting, have had something that the community is passionate about, and you all have had to continue the work that you're doing under an incredible amount of pressure. Rightly so. You have opened the board. I'm sorry, the  this podium for us to speak to you directly and I believe that you are listening, but you have had to have one meeting where the community was adamant that we will start on time. And so for the person who made a comment about why did the schools start later, that did not seem to be an option for our school board. And you voted for schools to start on time and another meeting. Our community, rightfully so, was advocating about you and the community, community leaders protecting our tax burden. And we have tax burden concerns there.
NEXT> Unidentified: And then we have another meeting, rightly so, where our teachers and educators are voicing a concern. But you all have a decision to make and you cannot please anyone,

[16831-202] Amanda Barton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; recurring commenter on project | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: very important decisions about our funding, about our school structure and about support for our teachers. Please include the principals. Thank you for opening their voice and please provide support to the teachers no matter what the decision is going forward. Thank you so much.
TEXT> Hello. Amanda. Barton, Ward two. So I just. Want to start I. Was also blindsided with, like, everybody about the proposal tonight. And I'm. Starting to. Think, did our superintendent leadership think that if they stuck in this proposal,  we would be like, oh, I guess a soft, soft, Grief configuration. Will be better because at least it wasn't what they proposed originally. And I feel like we're getting given two options just so we pick the lesser one instead of coming here with what we thought we were getting right. It was a proposal to do something for these kids at block. So I'm asking the board tonight, please vote no on this proposal. Obviously, I think that's pretty clear, but I'm also asking you to do exactly what we've been asking for years about a reconsideration  reconfiguration that is planned out  with all the stakeholders parents, teachers, drivers, principals, everyone who is going to be impacted should be given that decision making, and that is what we want. Thank you. I love you all so much. I know how hard your job is. It's already hard. It was already hard. And you know  that the ministration in this situation has made it almost impossible. And so thank you. And if if we have to close the school, please remember that there are some amazing teachers and students that went through that place.
NEXT> Amanda Barton: It would be a disgrace to just up and close it. It's not the pivot, it's set it up it deserves. Right. Please.

[16831-206] Ashley | Public commenter -- Bluff School parent (first name as announced; surn | 2025-09-10
PREV> Alex Hill: talk with about my class and that's coming, but at least I can meet with my U18. What's left with them and share with them. Works well with PD and ask them with how they might approach this. So there is some value. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi, my name is Ashley and I am a parent of a student at club. Last year I have the honor and privilege to have the most amazing teacher, Alicia Semana. She thought beside me, advocating for my son when nobody else would live here. With closing this school down. It is amazing. Teachers like her not being able to give the tension to the students that deserve it. Since coming to bluff, my son has made friends. He is not the medication that he needed because I had  like Alicia backing me up now with having to move kids around. How do I prepare my child for that? How do I tell him that he's not going to go to the school that he loves, that he gets up every day excited, going, I'm going to go see my friends. I'm going to go do this. I'm going to go do that in a matter of days. His life is already full of uncertainty while I battle health issue. School needs to be the one consistent thing. I'm begging you with tears in my eyes to not close down bluff not only for my needs, but also for the needs of children that walk to that school.
NEXT> Ashley: You say that closing class will give us about $60,000. What is going to be the cost when we have to grab more transportation to get these kids to the

[16831-207] Ashley | Public commenter -- Bluff School parent (first name as announced; surn | 2025-09-10
PREV> Ashley: of uncertainty while I battle health issue. School needs to be the one consistent thing. I'm begging you with tears in my eyes to not close down bluff not only for my needs, but also for the needs of children that walk to that school.
TEXT> You say that closing class will give us about $60,000. What is going to be the cost when we have to grab  more transportation to get these kids to the new schools? Because they don't have access to public transportation, they do not have access to resources like Nemo. Is absolutely disgusting and appalling that as a parent, I now have to prepare my seven year old to go to a new school where he's going to know nobody and not going to come home. And on top of that, you are failing our teachers. They are here begging and pleading for you to hear them out. They are using their own resources to make sure our kids are getting the education that they deserve, because you mishandled those funds. That is not fair to them and that is not fair to any parent here. How dare you close the school down after throwing us through a loop? You had said that the school is not going to close now. I am here fighting for my son as well as other parents and teachers to keep their kids in a school.
NEXT> Ashley: Not only that, if you look at the statistics, bluffs scored higher than bluff than Maple and Dessner when it came to reading and math. What are you going to

[16831-208] Ashley | Public commenter -- Bluff School parent (first name as announced; surn | 2025-09-10
PREV> Ashley: dare you close the school down after throwing us through a loop? You had said that the school is not going to close now. I am here fighting for my son as well as other parents and teachers to keep their kids in a school.
TEXT> Not only that, if you look at the statistics, bluffs scored higher than bluff  than Maple and Dessner when it came to reading and math. What are you going to be your plans when you move these kids into a school that scores lower if they're already struggling to meet those demands? How is more kids going to help? And on top of that, your plan was paid through second grade to go to desert and then third through fifth to go to Maple. That means my kid would not only go from bluff to dinner, then he would be going to me. That is three schools in a year. That is too much for us to ask the children to be resilient. And it's disgusting and I will not stand for it. Thank you.
NEXT> Greg Adams: Hi Greg Adams. Ward. Three.. I'm actually pretty new here. To the community. I moved to Texas a few months back, all time here in part time, back and forth

[16831-211] Unidentified | Brief interjection (voice not identifiable) | 2025-09-10
PREV> Greg Adams: a snap decision with the board that you're asking an impossible situation. And I just as a resident, I felt that I needed to express that. And I wish you all the best and how you go forward with this. And thank you very much.
TEXT> Thank you. I'm in I'm a teacher out of this district. I work to my students and my class told me about this. My kids in my classroom, not the parents, not the board fell down the line. System. What's happening with your kids at bluff? What do you mean? Well, in. School board say they're transparent. I said as a model. Just ran through transparent. And on the other question can help answer what going to happen to bluff after they close? Are they coming back? That's a problem. Not because the school board has been trying to get rid of them for years. Why? What's going to happen when bluff closes? Are you on the. I bought a house in the bluff community cause of the school. I can walk to it. My kids can get separated. Two schools. Y'all got to two busses to my house. So carry on. Staggered. Start all these new schools. Are you going to change the  school, middle school and all school and. The other. School to do this? What's the plan with that? Are you going to say you're going to start at 8:00? You're 830? Well, we don't kind of busses today. Where are you going to come in minutes late. So you're going to change this out for the kids because the snap decision. Oh we're going to do this in 30 mins.
NEXT> Unidentified: There's other educators in this school district special ed certified. What? You have some principal who might be special to help out. Hey, you step down for a little bit.

[16831-212] Unidentified | Public commenter -- teacher (self-described 'a teacher out of this dis | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: to start at 8:00? You're 830? Well, we don't kind of busses today. Where are you going to come in minutes late. So you're going to change this out for the kids because the snap decision. Oh we're going to do this in 30 mins.
TEXT> There's other educators in this school district special ed certified. What? You have some principal who might be special to help out. Hey, you step down for a little bit. Let's go ahead and bluff a little bit. Start the down. Let's go to the discards. Go to Maple. So when you start closing schools down are you going to open it back up next year or is it done. We still got paid taxes on that school. Are we going to sell it out to someone for farmers? And now all the bluff residents are like, oh, he's selling the house now. There's not a school here. That's why I bought  house in that district close enough to go to school. Thank you. Enough to meet people in the community. You start playing with kids around your community. Going to work. It's those bluff kids at Maple. Those bluff kids at Disney. Yeah, those kids are growing our resources. Those kids are doing that are they do knows. But you put  into the those kids. So it's like, hey guys, you gotta move your job down to Fall Mountain. There's no receivers hospital.
NEXT> Unidentified: Guess what? It's those kids Newport. There's this kids again. So y'all keep going around like, oh, kids around. Now we're turning into those kids. We need to take the

[16831-213] Unidentified | Public commenter -- teacher (self-described 'a teacher out of this dis | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: bluff kids at Disney. Yeah, those kids are growing our resources. Those kids are doing that are they do knows. But you put into the those kids. So it's like, hey guys, you gotta move your job down to Fall Mountain. There's no receivers hospital.
TEXT> Guess what? It's those kids Newport. There's this kids again. So y'all keep going around like, oh, kids around. Now we're turning into those kids. We need to take the bluff away from everybody. So we need to think about the income and the outcome of this more broadly with those kids. Because the kids that we have a bluff, I got you. Is they resilient? They work hard. A lot of parents don't see don't have all transportation, so they won't be able to make it or just not when they have open. Right. Because most of the parents walk. Y'all are not there when they're picking me up. You're not there when they grow up in the mornings. What is your plan to get those parents to these new schools, to meet these new principals and new teachers and stuff? So what is your plan with that, I got you. What is the plan for those parents?
NEXT> Shayla Duran: My name is Shayla Duran and I live in unity and I'm here in the district now. I have some legitimate questions. I think everyone's presented their feelings about this

[16831-221] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Physical therapy. Occupational therapy, speech therapy. It's not ideal sometimes, but we do do that. So, I know people still want to discuss, but I'd like to make a motion to table this discussion and have the administration come up with a more solid plan.
TEXT> Somebody writing this down. Any discussion? I have, I have questions. So. My understanding was, when this was brought. Toward the before the board was that it was in response to the issues that we were having uploaded. It was a response to and the solution to this, disturbance at bluff and these issues at bluff were addressed and adjudicated by the elementary school principals. Date I am hearing conflicting information, but after I listened to the elementary school principals, I believed that there had been a plan that was thoughtful and carefully laid out. Do you feel that you had a plan that was  and carefully laid out, that allowed teachers to go with students so  students wouldn't be separated from their core teachers, and this would create an additional buffer of adult staff in two buildings where we have limited staff in all three buildings. So we would have additional  adult qualified redundancy in those two buildings. My gut instinct is that the principals know what they're talking about, and even though it feels disruptive, I can't imagine principals would bring forth a disruptive plan full heartedly or without thought or care to their students and to the staff and the community that they have a commitment to. So for me, instead of tabling, I would like to explore more  if there is any more exploration to be had.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: What the fleshed out pieces of that plan look like. I don't know if the principles are up to it. Tonight I'm thinking if it was brought forward so urgently

[16831-225] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: I, I guess my point of tabling it is tabling this plan. I would like to hear that plan. But I. Have to put you on the spot to have that plan tonight. That's right.
TEXT> So are we. Would we like to vote to table the plan that was presented as far as moving all the kids, going K through two, or do we want to have a further discussion? So I would think we vote if the if the motion on the table is to table the discussion exclusively for this multi-step, multi very disruptive plan, I would entertain that position. But I if I if we were brought urgently here. So if I impression really was that this was urgent that we had to have it, we had to this was an urgent problem. We had a lot of issues. And so I need to have I need to feel that this is not urgent before I completely table it.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's good.

[16831-228] Unidentified | Crosstalk fragment (voice not identifiable) (garbled crosstalk before  | 2025-09-10
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: So when I'm saying it's in the motion to table. This point. Did you say that? Part of that discussion is tabling this plan and bringing more information? I can't I don't have enough information to take to do away with.
TEXT> Snow. On it. It's awful. Our kids deserve better.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The motion before us is to, for now, table the plan that was printed that presented by the administration as am I correct that that is the motion that you

[16831-236] Unidentified | Teacher speaking from the floor after the vote (name not stated) | 2025-09-10
PREV> Heather Whitney: Acting superintendent to work with the building principals. Because. Yes. Is there a second two table until next week? Lauren Howard, second table next week. Is there any further discussion? All in favor, raise your hands. 4 to 1. This is table until next week.
TEXT> Can I just ask you a question? How long do you want to dangle the the bone in front of people for the uncertainty, for staff? We're going to work every day not knowing if we're going to get asked or if we're going to be moving. What's going to happen are the taxes for nothing. I going to lose my own. All of these things are valid, and the kids are coming in and they're all upset as to whether or not they're going to stay with us.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I agree, I did not want to table.

[16831-248] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-09-10
PREV> Michael Petrin: Can those letters be submitted by via email or just in person?
TEXT> They can be submitted by email. Chelsea Weatherford is accepting those, and she will CC actually show up at CCU since I will not be  here next week.  Number item number five is a brief update on a request for investigation. At our last board meeting,  I was given by the board to act on their behalf. I had previously acted as an independent citizen, requesting that the attorney general investigate the situation that we have as far as our financial issues at the office, as a as a taxpayer and a citizen. I resubmitted that request on behalf of the board. I also submitted a request to our county attorney. The process for  investigations of these sorts have to start at the county level. I had a brief conversation with the  county attorney, and she provided a lot of legal ease and a lot of very complicated steps that have to go that have to happen. Issues related to being able to do a forensic audit and needing to wait until Mr. Angel has been able to clean up things as best as he can. And Mr. Angel is also a certified auditor and  has great experience in auditing districts. So quite frankly,  what I was told is that they would rely on a person such as himself to give them guidance, whether or not  they believe that  mal or,  deliberate misuse or abuse of funds had occurred.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I'm waiting for that letter when I get that letter. If it is on a time that I'm not available to present it, I will forward to Mr. Patron

[16857-6] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: week we heard a proposal and you'll see it up on the on the screen. A quick summary of that is that we were closed. Bluff Elementary School is not would become a K-2 school, and Maple Avenue would become a three through five school.
TEXT> Pros and cons to the idea. We're here to report tonight. That idea is off the table for this reason. Sadly, we have had the resignation of three bus drivers. Transportation is simply not possible in that plan. So  plan one from the principals point of view, is off the table. Due to working with our transportation director and hearing that challenge. So we're going to move on to what is now. I think I've actually done the principals plan. I'm going to read it just because  I know you can all read, but I know the font might be smaller for some of you. Anytime we're looking at a challenge, we start with what is truly the problem, right? Let's get at the problem statement, and we define the problem statement as due to operational issues such as staffing needed to provide special education services and classroom coverage. The elementary school principals are concerned about our ability to consistently meet the needs of all students for  the school year at Bluff Elementary School, so there's some really key phrases in there. Due to an inability to fill open positions, positions that were open over the summer but didn't yield us any applicants.  Deficit issues and subsequent resignations. Bluffs.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Current class configurations. Look as the following. You can see the number of classrooms. Two classrooms in kindergarten, two in third grade, all others having just one classroom. You see

[16857-11] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: getting into even more plans so some of it will be redundant. I apologize, but it's important that we all understand the finer points of this plan. Again, no positions would be eliminated in this process. We would move the pride program to Maple Avenue.
TEXT> We would move Bluff Kindergarten to Maple Avenue, bluff first grade, second grade, and third grade to Maple Avenue, for a total of 94 students, 25 of whom are identified through special education. And we're going to look in just a moment about how those needs would be met. Bluff students would move with their current teacher and any paraprofessionals currently supporting their classroom. We would move bluff. Fourth and fifth graders a total of 49 students. 21 of those students are identified with needs through special education. They would stay with their current teacher and any therapy currently supporting their classroom. You can tell that's a really important piece to us because we put it in about six times. It's important to us that bluff students stay with the people that they are currently working with, and that have gotten to know them this far in the school year. One addition would be a contracted service provider for special ed case management, because we need to meet the legal obligations that are outlined in our IEPs. There  any potential gains from this proposal? There are estimated financial gains, as we heard last week, of approximately $60,000 of the closing of Bluff School in October.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Possible financial impact. There could be some additional transportation costs, there would be moving expenses. And Mr. Steven Holt, who's the director of maintenance grounds and maintenance, would be seeking

[16857-12] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: ed case management, because we need to meet the legal obligations that are outlined in our IEPs. There any potential gains from this proposal? There are estimated financial gains, as we heard last week, of approximately $60,000 of the closing of Bluff School in October.
TEXT> Possible financial impact. There could be some additional transportation costs, there would be moving expenses. And Mr. Steven Holt, who's the director of maintenance grounds and maintenance, would be seeking quotes to find out what is the best option to do that safely and most efficiently. Transportation is super important for families to know about. All bluff students who live one mile from Disney Avenue would need to be offered transportation services. In discussion with our Director of Transportation, bluff may be used as a bus stop for all students who are currently walkers. The thinking behind that if you normally walk to school every day and go to bluff, a bus could meet you there and get you to your appropriate school. So,  she has already started thinking about some creative ways to make this most effective and efficient for families and students. Students who are currently riders will need to be surveyed to see if will continue to transport, if or if they will be seeking transportation. Some families might say to us, I prefer to bring my child to school. Others may say that worked for me  when they were at bluff and it won't work for me now. All current bluff routes will be rerouted to Desert and Maple and yes, due to grade levels being split, some families will have students on multiple busses.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: So what would the results be in this closure? The bold numbers you see are bluff numbers. And please know, the only reason those are highlighted is to show kind

[16857-15] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: identified students. You can see the number of special educators that would be servicing students. And you can see what the caseload of special educators would be after a blunt closure and melting of students. You can also see the same for Maple Avenue School.
TEXT> Maple Avenue School is where we would use the contracted services  case management. The goal is to keep those caseloads of our special educators at levels that are  similar to those throughout the state, and those would be, as well as to the point where they can effectively  manage all of the components of special ed and ensure that quality is there for every student that needs is in need of services. Well, what our timeline of events. Being. Immediately, if if this were voted in by the board, we would there would be staff notice of change of assignment because we're looking at a 30 day window to notify all of our members within SRT eight, which is our teachers association is not in Maple would begin immediately. Any schedule, any daily schedule changes. We would begin that process immediately to ensure, again, those classes are a  part of every schedule. As any other classroom in our school. We then need to plan what would be packing days, what would be moving days, and what would be classroom set up days. Please know this about elementary teachers. Remember all those wonderful things I said. They're so very true. You need to add orders. We are. Orders by nature.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: It's another word, for it is thrifty. Some of our husbands use different words. We really need to do that in collaboration with our colleagues in SRE, to determine how

[16857-16] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: what would be packing days, what would be moving days, and what would be classroom set up days. Please know this about elementary teachers. Remember all those wonderful things I said. They're so very true. You need to add orders. We are. Orders by nature.
TEXT> It's another word, for it is thrifty. Some of our husbands use different words. We really need to do that in collaboration with our colleagues in SRE, to determine how best that can be done, to ensure that teachers have the time to do what they need to do. And so that's why I don't have specifically for you right now. What we would be aiming for is the new first day for students being October 20th, 2025. Families are subject to be part of this proposal because we recognize that anytime we hear there's going to be a change for our kiddos, it gives us a little bit in our stomach and we think, oh my gosh, how's this going to go? We are committed to making this the smoothest. If this proposal goes through with the board, the smoothest transition possible for children and families. So what we would do is we would  notify all families of their child's new school assignment. That part's a little easier because we've told you which grade levels will be going where by October 10th. Each student and family will then receive an Individualized Student Information. Notice.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And I apologize. I don't think I can get to it from here, but I can pull it up right after. As well as welcoming information from their new school

[16857-19] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: roles. They provide specially designed instruction as a service to that student that's individualized to them and to their needs, as well as the case management. In the world of special education, there is a process and there are a lot of checks and balances.
TEXT> A lot of people work and a lot of things that need to be done in order to ensure students are receiving the services they need. The first part of that is piece management. What we be proposing is the special educators from Dessner. I have three special educators will assume case management responsibilities for all students in third grade at Bluff Elementary School. That would be nine students that would be split between three elementary students, three special educators at Dessner, special educators from Maple Avenue would be assuming the case management responsibilities for all students. In second grade, eight students split between three special educators in Mr. Blunt School. Peace management for students in fourth and fifth grade would be would be done through that contracted service provider that is 21 students. Bluff  special educators will provide peace management services for kindergarten and first grade, along with any new referrals that are received. As as many of you know, anytime there's a question, a referral would be made to special education or student. That process can occur any and all time. What financial gains are there to this proposal? There are none. What transportation concerns or questions? There's no impact to transportation for this proposal. What this proposal does do is you can see it's color coded, the pink or kindergarten bluff case manager  piece managers would take care of those eight students, along with the pride program and only referrals that come. In.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Maple Avenue. Second grade is now a third grade contracting service, which is what the CS stands for would be the fourth and fifth grade. What you have at the

[16857-28] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: doing that. Do it. If they can't do that with a verbal drive by shooting at 10 p.m. the night before, you're putting them in a position to lose trust with families, to lose rapport building, to trigger kiddos that have extreme trauma with meaning.
TEXT> Extra time for adjustment conversations. You're not helping your educators be the best that they can be, because you're putting them in situations that are not the best. Situations that are very easily avoided. Really transparent conversation. I think that is something. Even as a parent, I've been really disappointed in finding things out in a way that's not acceptable. Last minute, hastily reported bits and pieces of things I think you, And I just really want to highlight the perseverance of the  entire Saw staff from top to bottom, left to right. I get to go into the schools and I know that he is. Teachers are in the entire rerouting system for these kids who are  filled up with anxiety, trauma,  a ton of different adversities, and they have to be the common. They don't even know if they're going to have a job or a plan or whatever, because they're given fragments of information. I just think out of respect for the staff that had chosen to stay. When the ship is sinking, you need to do your job. You need to communicate effectively. You need to be respectful to the staff that is working tirelessly to make these students feel safe, loved and heard. That's your job. That's why you're here. Communication I really hope to see an improvement out of respect for your staff, who deserve way more than we've been given. Thank you. Well done.
NEXT> Unidentified: Holder Ward two. So look through the two proposal for proposal three. So it's not as much movement for the kids. Looking at the proposal two you said the distance

[16857-29] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 2 (unidentified; name unintelligible on recordi | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: is working tirelessly to make these students feel safe, loved and heard. That's your job. That's why you're here. Communication I really hope to see an improvement out of respect for your staff, who deserve way more than we've been given. Thank you. Well done.
TEXT> Holder Ward two. So look through the two proposal for proposal three. So it's not as much movement for the kids. Looking at the proposal two you said the distance for busses is one mile. Is that a one mile radius from my house or the roots of one mile. And my house is one mile from both schools radius wise. But rat was it is not. So how does that work for you? I need to know that information like as it route was already as was.  The other hand is will y'all  be opening schools earlier for parents to drop kids off like you all? Are you going to allow them to drop them off at 7:00 in the morning because they can't be at the bus stop for some of these kids? Because there's going to be a program for these kids to be dropped off in the morning if the new start day. I'm trying to think of all the things that starts at 20th. Knowing how elementary teachers put their rooms together and trying to find rooms in these other two schools in this district the best they can. Are you going to close the bluff down for a week for those teachers to move, if that's the one proposed, because that takes a long time for that love to be shown in the rooms spend at the school that they are,  the love's already there.
NEXT> Unidentified: They have that love, they have that care. I know they move with their teachers, but it's still a new routine. Statistics show that kids get moved around a lot.

[16857-31] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 2 (unidentified; name unintelligible on recordi | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: because they don't want to be in this district anymore. It's going to take ten years for y'all to get the community's trust back, to trust this school district. 5 million in a home. That sucks. But not having the educators here sucks even more.
TEXT> So you need to make sure you take care of the educators. Those teacher burnout is real. For real. Because when y'all burn them out, they're not coming back. They will tell their friends, don't go to Claremont. I am burned out and they will burn you to. The other one is trying to find an application. I'm from the south. I cannot find a job in New Hampshire when I moved here. Zero. Y'all are not only any of the teacher applications online unless I film essay you or  Claremont. I can't find jobs so trying out reach other states if you can find it. And I  come up with a plan that I'm surprised nobody else thought about. What if we were to get help from people donating money to keep love open instead of closing it? And. Then I wrote, something after what transpired from the last school board meeting and some tears and uncertain uncertainties and concerns for our children, I just want  you to know. Sorry I missed out. I stand with you. I want to take a moment to say, I see you, I hear you, I validate you, I value and appreciate every one of you. I also believe that bluff isn't just a school. It's a family full of love and understanding and truly breaks my heart that the teachers feel undervalued and some, if not all unseen, and their words are being pushed under the rug.
NEXT> Unidentified: Instead of validating just know I. Sorry, I'm a little more. Anyway, I'm just going to say I do not want love to to close. So if people want to

[16857-32] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: one of you. I also believe that bluff isn't just a school. It's a family full of love and understanding and truly breaks my heart that the teachers feel undervalued and some, if not all unseen, and their words are being pushed under the rug.
TEXT> Instead of validating just know I. Sorry, I'm a little more. Anyway, I'm just going to say I do not want love to to close. So if people want to actually give the kids something to smile about, please help donate so they don't close with. Congratulations on your. New job. And for all your people that are here and the ones out on TV land. The new. Proposal from the from the. Was, I think, accepted a lot better than and no disrespect. For the guys who were up here last week, but you look like the three students. Yes. No answers. I've told you several times, show your work. These people have done the work and shown the work. So you say, well, this is the way it's got to be. And we're going to say $60,000. How much is it going to cost to close that school up? Yes. You know, you. You. Just gave us one number, nothing else. Give all the information. These people have done that. So I suggest that you go with what they've done. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Somebody for the Michael. Yeah. Not worried.

[16857-37] Unidentified | Brief crosstalk (speaker not identifiable) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Sherry Williams: creative community engagement. As you are looking at getting funding or quotes from moving and things like that with the community and the support in the different areas that we've seen, you might be able to get some creative community support with moving the schools.
TEXT> Very good. This man is a done. This means you got. Trips. Yeah. Principal. Can you hear? You? Prince Boggess will work to. There's got to be about anything because it has to be on the screen. Whatever you want. Okay, I. Heard a rumor. A rumor that after the assassination of Utah last week. Educator, the Claremont educator had made comments to her kids, again, rumored to be inappropriate. I want to know if you're going to confirm that happen or not. I thought the comments were supposed to be about bluff, so. That's why I asked. We're taking questions. That's why I said no. Okay. The change of subject, okay. It's not going to talk about that. It's gonna be, let's talk one. Yeah.  My kids at bluff and I have another student that I have another. I'm a teacher, so I'm saying student all the time.  My son is in the middle school. He also as well, and I have many friends that also go there. So I really hope, for the sake of everybody here, in the sake of all the students of love,  and the students that people are, frankly, that you have not already made up your minds about how you're going to vote tonight. So we seem to be focused on one school that we should really be focused on the entire district.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. At this time, I understand you're on, so I want clarity on this before you vote. I understand that we have 1 or 2 special educators at bluff. Is

[16857-39] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified; Claremont teacher and Bluff Elementary | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: it's going to be a bus stop, which I love that idea, but if it's going to be a bus stop with the schools a heated and open there goes for 60 K, moving costs are going to be significant. And then. Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> I made it this time.  Is this about money? Right? Or  is this about the students? Because this should be about the students, right? Should you be able to students and the staff heap them where they are  until you know what's happening with our budget, okay? And then come up with a game plan. Please don't move them. Move them and move them. It's exhausting. So  that's proposal three, please. Thank you. In another district. So I can see that side of it too. But my history is that I taught somewhere where I. Had 20. Five kids on average.  There were 4 or 5 other teachers, 600 kids in the school. And had we stayed where we were, our children would have had names on a data wall somewhere, and folks would not have really ever gotten to know either one of our children. So we decided we wanted to move to a little,  a quaint little place in New England where I did my student teaching in New Hampshire. Finally convince my husband to move here. And we moved in the middle of a pandemic, which meant that my children new nobody. They played with only each other. I sent my little teeny tiny kindergartner after the Big bang pack and a mass.  And it just was like. There you go. And she got a brand new teacher,  really nervous.
NEXT> Unidentified: Mommy came home. Mayor of bluff loves her school. Taught her three year old sister the bluff chair, which we knew all the time at dinner. And if you have

[16857-40] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified; Bluff Elementary parent) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: which meant that my children new nobody. They played with only each other. I sent my little teeny tiny kindergartner after the Big bang pack and a mass. And it just was like. There you go. And she got a brand new teacher, really nervous.
TEXT> Mommy came home. Mayor of bluff loves her school. Taught her three year old sister the bluff chair, which we knew all the time at dinner. And if you have children in bluff, I know all about everything because all they do is talk with each other.  The teachers there are phenomenal and amazing, and it's exactly what we wanted for our children. I really, really, really, really, really think that would be incredibly detrimental to our children. To move them and move them and move them and move them. I understand there's a budget crisis. I understand that nobody really knows what that all means at this point. But I do know that if there are two options and one of them is keeping our children where they are, please do that. It would be. It would be a humongous. Really. We are having sleepless nights. We are very stressed out at my house. Our children are having to deal with the impact of decisions, and I would like that impact to be one decision less. I would like them to stay where they are and I would really appreciate it. Shows number four. Thank you.
NEXT> Amanda Barton: To everyone. Amanda Barton Award two. I want to make a couple of comments about two and three. Start by saying thank you for proposal for the proposals. This is

[16857-41] Amanda Barton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: at my house. Our children are having to deal with the impact of decisions, and I would like that impact to be one decision less. I would like them to stay where they are and I would really appreciate it. Shows number four. Thank you.
TEXT> To  everyone. Amanda Barton Award two.  I want to make a couple of comments about  two and three.  Start by saying thank you for proposal for the proposals. This is kind of what I was hoping that we'd have discussion last week, but that's here, nor there.  One comment about two if we were to, you know, combine the schools. Let's hope we don't make any Stanford action ever. Like, I don't want this to be a reason to reduce that next year. We all know we could never afford such things, so I hope that the board keeps that in consideration. And we still look forward to, a longer term plan as well after this if we go forward to it. That's my comment. And  another comment that was asked is families that if all the two of us to go through with families that have students in those multiple grades, could they who have their son or daughter join a different class at that school? They really wanted to keep their family together, and that was more important than staying within the class. Just go with that out there in case that comes up for those families. Now,  I'm actually more in favor of proposal three because like I've heard here, it's it's less impact on the students in that disruption. So I have some clarifying questions I'm hoping that you guys will discuss for me. So,  are the case manager numbers more equitable?
NEXT> Amanda Barton: I was having a really hard time. I misread the proposal at home. So thank you for the clarification. And I'm just trying to figure out if, like, their lows

[16857-44] Unidentified | Brief crosstalk (speaker not identifiable) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Amanda Barton: in town who want to help. We've heard that and it's amazing. So let's kind of keep those ideas going. If we have to go with the three, let's think of all of those options as well. Maybe have that discussion for me. Thank you.
TEXT> Well. I'm a Bluff School teacher. I've taught in other districts around the state. I've taught in private schools. I raised my kids here in Claremont. I'm not native with 22 years, and  we started the school year under a great deal of duress. My my taxes here in Claremont have gone through the roof.  I'm not happy about any of that, but starting the year so rough and looking at the year projecting sort of the changes we're going to go through as a district, very likely, it's going to take some strategic planning to make the likely changes, a very likely configuration of the whole elementary situation. That's something that we've got a lot of talent in the district to bring to the table around those kinds of discussions.  But, you know, frankly, it's only a few weeks into the school year, and emotionally,  this is really impactful, and I want to do the best job that I can do for these students. And  moving to another building is is asking a lot of us. It's asking a lot of our kids. And if the kids are moving again next year because of this reconfiguration that we'd like to map out to a T, is is just untenable. So let's just keep the school open for the year for everybody, Sandy, so that we can be the very best that we can be for one, last year.
NEXT> Unidentified: And given everything that we've got and do the best they can to plan for a proper reconfiguration. Please let us go with plan three. Three. Plan to plan 33.

[16857-51] Tammy Yates | Claremont teachers' union president; Bluff Elementary School teacher ( | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: I do have to say thank you. This was very powerful because, it is very refreshing to have that instead of what we had before. Fantastic. Thank you. Great. So. So, good luck communicating with those teachers and the students and everything else. Thank you.
TEXT> I want. To. Speak on behalf. Of our bluff students. At this point, children. Are scared. We're beginning to see. Trauma in them. It is really hard for. Me as. An educator. It it's home. They're afraid of the uncertainty that. Has. Been created. In our building. It's taken us. Weeks to be able. To build. A family atmosphere. And environment to. For children to feel. Safe. And encouraged and want to be in our school.  As the union. President,  I can say that. I am. Concerned about all of our teachers. These principles have done an amazing job to try to advocate for our students. Unfortunately, I do feel that the situation  has been very difficult for the board. I personally don't feel that we as educators have been supported, and it's something that really hurts me, even the heart.  And I would like to say that  I propose a proposal number three.
NEXT> Unidentified: And I'm from Ward three. This is my grades. I'm terrified to be up here. I've been a resident of Fairmont for years. I graduated from Stevens High School in

[16857-53] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: in Medicaid reimbursements. We did have to return $70,000 due to audit findings. Are we okay with not billing Medicaid and not pursuing these revenues with our current flow problems? And I really hope to talk to carry tomorrow about the other issues. Good point.
TEXT> Shows the N word two. I want to thank all of you for your responsible for that you have given the community. I really stand here before you honestly not knowing what to say, right? How the person wants to be here. This community and the teachers and staff pieces. This is all fell down and it's hard. It's really, really hard work. And I don't know what the answer is, and I. I wish somebody knew. But I also I would hate moving any, any staff, but I think we also have to think about our whole community and what that means. And that makes me sad. This really does. And I don't know the answer, but I think probably where all of our students in this and. Frankly, I don't know. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We're looking here. I. Based on that one need for the current. Season. And that. That school will never. Reopen for some means of true poaching. So it. Really seems like a bad option. Because the teachers. This is a. Competitive. Place to be or to come to with the class sizes that we have the facilities falling apart because we were cut well. And then you're also going to need some of that shift over and take care of the school that hopefully it must be planning to sell. It seems like an incomplete plan all the way around. The problem that's creating it is making the district very.
NEXT> Unidentified: Nobody wants to be. Nobody wants to stay or nobody's sure to pick up the able to stay. So sticking it out and waiting for a better plan to develop

[16857-77] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: what I do when a pair of NASA's. I put their address in my maps app. And I thank you for not judging me. Because we're we're looking for that one. So that leads me to say. Good. But I am not the transportation director.
TEXT> I also want to thank the principles for the work that you've done and your staff, the people who are here, who are hanging in and getting us through this. We have to get through this and we will. I also want to say I was not here last week because I had plans previously arranged for months ago, and I could not change them. I will tell you, while I was not here, I was on the phone. I was getting texts, emails. So while I was physically not here, I felt that I was hearing,  the concern I have is about the hemorrhaging that is happening. Our staff are stressed. The uncertainty of where am I going to be? What is my what are my numbers going to be for teaching children and being able to focus on their children in front of you? The way I see the second plan principals plan is that we're just moving. I shouldn't say just we're moving the geographic location. The children will be with their teacher. They will be with their parents. They will be welcomed. Looking at the elementary principals, they will be welcomed into their new location. If we reach a point where and it does happen, children or or schools, I should say, or germ factories when adults are sick, if there's no one there to cover the class, that's that's extremely unsettling for children.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: If we are having students in just a geographical different location, there are adults who can help cover classes, who can continue the teaching for those children because they're somewhat

[16857-78] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-09-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: be welcomed into their new location. If we reach a point where and it does happen, children or or schools, I should say, or germ factories when adults are sick, if there's no one there to cover the class, that's that's extremely unsettling for children.
TEXT> If we are having students in just a geographical different location, there are adults who can help cover classes, who can continue the teaching for those children because they're somewhat available, more so than they are right now. And the other piece, and I may have said, this is the uncertainty for our staff. We're hearing that staff is stressed. We're hearing that staff doesn't know if they're going to have a job. They're resigning. We can keep them by having the certainty of having their location, having their numbers be reasonable and knowing that come winter they will be okay and our kids will be okay.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: What's the progress of the audit? Do you have a number yet? If not.

[16857-85] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-09-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: trying to be responsible with the budget. And then on top of that, we've got this crisis of the immediate concern for our finances. And we have been put in a horrible situation that we are in unprecedented area. We not have the luxury. Of.
TEXT> I mean, we do not luxury of having a 2 to 3 year process of analyzing and making and having you all participate in,  in wonderful,  parent teacher community forums to talk about what's the best way forward. That's what we would like to do. I know that's what you would like to do. We agree, but we don't have the the luxury of time. We are concerned about the the finances. I think I can't speak for the rest of them, but I want to be able to keep the schools open for the year. That's. That's what I am. That's what I'm working on. I want the schools to stay open for the year. Number two, I want to be able to cover the needs of our students during that year. If if I have  a couple of teachers out.  There's a death in the family. There's a child that's hurt. I mean, the principals can tell you any number of appearances that happen. My teachers are. Oh, we have got to. We already have a very limited amount of staff, and  we have got to accommodate those students, regardless of how many staff we have in the buildings.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And, we're trying to see what is the best way to address the everyday needs of our students, the special ed needs of the students and the, old, old today's

[16857-86] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-09-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: principals can tell you any number of appearances that happen. My teachers are. Oh, we have got to. We already have a very limited amount of staff, and we have got to accommodate those students, regardless of how many staff we have in the buildings.
TEXT> And,  we're trying to see what is the best way to address the everyday needs of our students, the special ed needs of the students and the,  old, old today's what happens situation where  the principal comes in and the principal is down. Three teachers for a variety of reasons.
NEXT> Unidentified: We've been. Down. 12 before and and made it work. We can do it. We think. We'll take all. Of them.

[16857-92] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-09-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: That's it. Go ahead.
TEXT> And I just want to add on. I am working with Tammy Yates and Karen Ladd from the Sri as well. And, and h e as well, just to make sure that we represent all the faculty  and staff. And I appreciate that all of the work that has been done, and I apologize on behalf of any previous that may not have included to at the table. That was remiss of us. And we will definitely make sure moving forward, that we include all of the union representatives of hospital to make sure everybody is represented as well as possible.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Unless Bill or Mike have any questions for them. I'd like. To. Make a motion of support for proposal number three. That's my motion.

[16857-102] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-09-17
PREV> Loren Howard: But I was asked. What I was asking was, at what point do we want the principals to make any further comments? I.
TEXT> I think the principals provided a very clear presentation. I think that you offered the options. I very much appreciate that. The first option was taken off of the table because of the chaos that we would have experienced and the disharmony for adults and kids. I again want to reiterate that I think with option two, none of us want to be here. None of us. The ideal situation would be to have everything adequately funded, to have teachers breaking down the doors to come into. Our district. We're not there yet. Hopefully we will get there for the quality that we can provide children. And I believe that there will be more opportunity for providing the adults in the room that can continue the teaching and learning that is happening in classrooms and should be happening. That is our focus for our children. I've been in the classroom. I've been in your shoes. I don't like being on this side. I  can't imagine what all of you are going through. The reality is we are here and these are the hard decisions that have to be made.
NEXT> Unidentified: You need to advocate for children. That's right. What we need to do. Is be the poorest neighborhoods in town, and they're the ones taking the hit. Once again. We

[16857-116] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-09-17
PREV> Loren Howard: foresight to look at this list and go in a month. What are we going to be missing? Now, here we are. And the fact that we're voting to close bluff because of this decision is just absolutely baffling after hearing what we heard tonight.
TEXT> Again, just even moving the motion is absolutely baffling to me.  And so I don't have any more facts on the people who are out there who saw this tonight. And so I  think,  if that's honestly where your votes are going to lie and you need to relook at the facts, because proposal number two is not going to help our children.
NEXT> Unidentified: You're right.

[16857-118] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: You're right.
TEXT> I'm concerned about, plan three because I'm afraid to get to December. And we might have to go back to plan two. And I think we would be better off. I really think it's better for the children to make the change now. It's still September.  And how a. Full. Year of the new plan, with their teachers in the different buildings. And,  but this. Might.
NEXT> Unidentified: She has no idea what she's saying out in the summer.

[16872-9] Gary Merchant | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: minutes for that first 30 minutes. And if you'd like to speak for a second time within that 30 minute time frame, that's more than acceptable. Is there anyone here that would like to speak to citizens comments this evening? Okay. Patrick, would you mind?
TEXT> Sorry for the record. My name is Gary Merchant, Ward two. First and foremost, I want to thank every single member of the school board for the hard work, sleepless nights, stressful moments, and tough decisions. You folks have been together collectively on behalf of this community. I want to say in deepest I possibly can from the bottom of my heart, thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[16872-14] Eric Abbey | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2025-10-01
PREV> Eric Abbey: important if you want our trust and to be able to come back to where we should be, we need to know what you guys are going to do to make sure we know someone's looking out for all of these things that went wrong.
TEXT> The interesting the only other thing I want to say, I'm sure there's more, but I'm forgetting. But  one thing in last the last meeting. And whatever it is with with, the school closing on all that, there was one thing said multiple times that I just want you guys to really be thinking about in forward decisions that, you know, over years, how many schools have closed in Claremont and you, you know, be at 30, 40, 50, however many years ago do not say that it it just takes away from the students today, 30, 40, 50 years ago, you had great families, you had families support, you had parents engaged. These children now do not have that. We know the drug addiction problem in this town. They don't have support at home. So to compare it to your 30 years ago, different time, different era, stop bringing that into play. This is the world we live in today. It's scary and it's more scary for those young children. And to discount that by saying you went through it is not acceptable. I just think that you guys should think about things like that before you say it. That's all.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Your name and ward for the.

[16872-60] Chris Cogswell | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi,  Chris. Cogswell. Ward three.  I. Just wanted to take a moment. I, I really don't have a lot to say to the school board, per se, but more to the students of Claremont. I just wanted to say how intensely proud of you I am.  You know, New Hampshire schools are chronically underfunded. And Claremont within New Hampshire, schools are chronically underfunded.  And yet Claremont kids are doing  above the national average in various statistics. And I just want to make sure that we as a community, take into consideration when these kids are coming up through school now, just how disruptive this event is for them. Could you imagine starting thinking you're starting school in a week and then being told, well, maybe not your favorite teacher is fired  or there's no sports this year. You may not go to college, right?  And so I really hope that not only, we as a community come together to understand that challenge and really support these students, but I hope the state also steps up to support those students. Right.  We're constantly hearing about, you know, Claremont students, and how high the taxes are and, you know, the school system struggling and everything else. And I'm frankly tired of just hearing bad news. We have a lot to celebrate in Claremont. Our students are doing,  tremendously well given the challenges that they are facing constantly every day. Forget who said it. But you. Know.
NEXT> Chris Cogswell: The type of situation that these students are growing up in today is so different than it's ever been before. There's more challenges today than there have ever been, and

[16872-61] Chris Cogswell | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Chris Cogswell: system struggling and everything else. And I'm frankly tired of just hearing bad news. We have a lot to celebrate in Claremont. Our students are doing, tremendously well given the challenges that they are facing constantly every day. Forget who said it. But you. Know.
TEXT> The type of situation that these students are growing up in today is so different than it's ever been before. There's more challenges today than there have ever been, and yet we continue to ask them to do more with less.  And it's one part of the conversation I feel like we keep missing out on. Right. There's a lot we as a community could do for these students to support them, and I just hope that they know how know we know how hard they're working. And that they really continue to, to do what they're doing because they are doing well in the face of tremendous adversity. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[16872-68] Hope Damon | NH State Representative, Sullivan District 8 (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening everybody. Hope Damon, state representative for Sullivan, district eight.  I just wanted to respond to the question in regards to free and reduced meals with  two pieces of information. Free and Reduced Meals is a federal program that's administered by the state, but the state's education adequacy formula is partly based on the number of students who qualify for free and reduced meals. So I would very much encourage any parents or guardians who have not filled out the application for free and reduced meals. Don't assume you don't qualify. It's worth finding out even if your student doesn't want to eat the meals, because if you qualify, Claremont will get substantially more education funding from the state. So I just want to put that out to the public. And then in regards to an entire school, like the way bluff has been able to offer free meals to all students, that is a separate part of the federal school meals program that's based, I believe,  on a larger percentage of students in the district qualifying. If the percentage is high enough, then free meals can be provided for all the students in the district.
NEXT> Hope Damon: I can, verify the details on that and, follow up on that with folks so we can find out whether Dessner or Maple Avenue would qualify. I know that there

[16872-71] Eric Abbey | Public commenter, Ward 3 (onset clip) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you, Miss David.
TEXT> I'm  still. Abby and I'm still in Ward three.  I did get to think of a couple other things that I had thought of before. I will just say one thing to me personally. Like reading a lot of, you know, the the community comments out there. I feel kind of dirty. Having a child with special needs, special education is taken so dirty looking like we cost all this money and we but I, I mean, the first things that happen are they want our kids medical billing information. So to see such a deficit by special education is so confusing to me. And even that everybody thinks that's putting us in debt. Claremont's never been fully staffed to meet all the needs. We are out of compliance every day on it before now, who knows for how much longer. So it just feels so dirty to have special education targeted every time every financial talking comes about. I just want to put that out there for everybody to think about when they're saying those things, like those darn special needs kids.  The second thing, because the attorney is here, right? I just wonder if there's a conversation because it seems a really good time with the needs that we have to be hiring because we obviously we're lacking in many.
NEXT> Eric Abbey: Is there any talk about contract? Making them better. Let's stop paying people that kind of screw us over. Let's stop paying them. Leave. Are there any talks of of

[16872-134] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-10-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: still not going to be fixing everything right now. Two and just a few more updates and going through. So just as a regular principles, I mean superintendents report right now we have a lot of meetings recently I have personally met with some legislators.
TEXT> I've met with, Commissioner Davis  via zoom and things, discussing some ideas. We had talked about some ways, looking at the deficit, looking at some other ways we can help support. They are reaching out. I will appreciate that. To find other, support personnel across the state who can help meet with us.  Meeting with the commissioner. Excuse me, the chancellor of the community college system, looking at all different options just to see connections that we have. I met with Senator Shaheen,  and looking at ways that they can support us as well. We are getting notoriety, good or bad sometimes, but just people are looking to support us and I appreciate that.  And how we can make sure we are, you know, I'll be writing some wrongs and totally fairness and making sure that we have what we do. And I appreciate the comments about the students and a big shout out to the students and all the staff, too. And I know it's coming out of burden to families right now, and I wish I could alleviate all of that. We have some more plans and I'll get into that when we get into the bluff closure piece. But really looking at I met today with Dick, and Gerard just talking about the Stephens Alumni Association.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so how can they help? And we have a shout out and we have some more things to share with that in a minute under our agenda item on

[16872-153] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: want to be part of that success as a member of our school board. Thank you. Mr. Putnam is well known to our community, and he had an abbreviated letter. But many of us know and many in the community know Mr. Putnam as well.
TEXT> Dear Claremont School Board, my purpose in applying for the vacant seat on the Claremont School Board is to offer my sincerity and experience to the Claremont School Board and the City of Claremont, with the goal of providing both an appropriate and fiscally responsible education experience to our children. Thank you, Mr. Putnam. And then the final letter is from Mr. Kevin Tyson. I'm writing to express my interest in filling the vacancy left by Frank Sprague and to serve out the remainder of his term. For more than three years, I have served on the Claremont Community Media Center board, where I also produced a candidate interview program that helps inform and engage our residents. I currently serve on the City Council's Energy Advisory Committee, and previously contributed to its Policy Committee, gaining experience in consensus building and local governance within our schools. I have tutored students at the Alternative High School and supported the source title  for work by assisting Assistant Superintendent Mike Kosky with Survey Data Management. I also volunteered at the Claremont Makerspace. I also volunteer at the Claremont Makerspace,  where I have taught classes on using AI tools to help align school board policy with state and federal requirements. In addition to civic service, I bring over four decades of professional leadership experience, having held roles as vice president, senior vice president, executive director and managing Director and in major financial institutions.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: These role requires strong fiduciary responsibilities, accountability, and in some cases, participation in forensic audits. Experience that I believe will be invaluable to the school board. I'm deeply motivated to

[16872-160] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: the students. And I'll give you a very simplified explanation when I'm talking about and again, not all inclusive. So for a school provide a high quality, effective learning environment. The parent helped set a positive tone for learning with the child and the student.
TEXT> Ask questions when I'm not sure about a lesson or assignment. Second, community engagement and celebration continue to be vitally important. And fortunately, in this community, we already have a strong foundation. Take a look at the ongoing community fundraising. Our successful Welcome Back to School festival. Festivals are well attended and received, and almost every home sporting event. I believe we can nurture and grow this culture of caring and support by expanding those same celebrations to include both academics and the arts, and I often wonder what hanging and academic celebration banner in our school, similar to those in the high school gym. I wonder what that would do for our students and for our citizens. And the same goes for our significant arts programs. Thirdly, our teachers, educational staff, and administration. While pay and benefits are important, I believe they are not the sole determinant in recruiting and retaining staff. One need only to look at the devoted, lengthy careers of some of our current teachers and a few administrators. Lewis, as well as our retirees in this district, some of whom were with us for decades. It's my belief that if we provide adequate compensation and combine it with a true sense of teacher agency in overcoming teacher in efficacy, we can help attract and retain quality staff and eliminate burnout. And that helps to foster a sense of belonging within our schools.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: In other words, elevate the teacher voice to understand and address what they need. Now I'm going to use a military example that I learned long ago. Ask soldiers what

[16872-161] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: belief that if we provide adequate compensation and combine it with a true sense of teacher agency in overcoming teacher in efficacy, we can help attract and retain quality staff and eliminate burnout. And that helps to foster a sense of belonging within our schools.
TEXT> In other words, elevate the teacher voice to understand and address what they need. Now I'm going to use a military example  that I learned long ago. Ask soldiers what they need, listen to their feedback, and then take action. Creating a sense of teacher efficacy individually and collectively will lead to positive outcomes for our students.  Help create a climate where people want to come to work and in our case, and more importantly, stay. Third question asked if we had time to look at the New Hampshire School Board Association website, and I certainly did, I reviewed the governance and accountability, the role of the school board, as well as the school board self-assessment form. The next question that was asked of us talks about the rule, the role of a school board member.  And I'm going to get to the nitty gritty of the question. It says, given the restrictions and the need to have discussions regarding issues that members care about,  how would you, as a new member, participate in important and non divisive debate?
NEXT> Don Lavalette: An important trait of a high functioning team is respect, and one way to model that is through active listening. Or they used to remind my own children and my

[16872-166] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: dedicated communications staff member, so that helps. So the website address very easy WWWDV is in Victor tom.org wsdvt.org. And I'm going to give you a little background on this city. The city is a school district that quote unquote not rich by any means.
TEXT> In the space of about one square mile, there's about 7000 people. It's from most densely populated city, and somewhere around 20 languages are spoken into public schools.  Now, I'm not saying their website is to be all, end all, but we would do well to consider, to explore and see what we can borrow. And again, that's just one small part of the puzzle to improve credibility and in my mind, help restore trust. Next question asked how would you demonstrate your support for public education? Was it real clear to me the intent, the direction of this question? So I'm going to answer this. As a taxpayer, I demonstrate my support for public education, specifically Claremont, by continuing to resist the sirens call to move south to a state where in my particular case, I would be exempt from property taxes. I love Claremont, we chose this city in January of 2000 because of things like the parks and the community, programs like Hallowell, and the myriad number of opportunities we saw for us before we decided to have a family. And on February 15th, 2000, we became  homeowners here. We've raised our kids here, and the school district did very well by my children.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: And while we don't have the biggest or the best house in the city for tax purposes, our place is the only one my kids have known as home and

[16872-168] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: we all struggle with personal biases, whether it's deciding what food to eat, where to buy groceries, who we associate with, etc. but being part of a successful team marriage or in this case a board is one of give or take, give and take.
TEXT> Excuse me. Tuning out and turning down those biases and realizing you won't always get your way. And at the end of the day, you're part of a team or a family, something bigger than you. And in this case, a board. Always remember why we are here with a responsibility to the taxpayer and our children. And as Reverend Nye stated so eloquently in 1824, management of our schools is highly necessary and important for the instruction and benefit of the rising generation, the rising generation still applicable today. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Does any the board have any questions?

[16872-228] Kevin Tyson | Applicant for the vacant school board seat (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: It's part of the article that you had written and it said that Claremont doesn't have a deficit of care, it has a deficit of fit. And then you ended that with, that's not noble. It's negligent.
TEXT> Yes. Because  while we spend a tremendous amount of effort with IEPs and everything else trying to address the individual students, we're still marching everybody through one great at a time. We need to. I think, you know, like I said, not only do we need to have the funding follow the students, you need to have the education driven by the parents  to be what the parents want to see. When we have kids, we take on a number of obligations. We got to feed them, clothe them housing and provide them with an education. The obligation, the obligatory is the parents. It's not the school,  the obligation. Well, the obvious one is the kids, but the other obligations are all of us in the community. These are people who've been to grow up and, you know, serve on juries and vote, you know, do all of the other 12 things that we are obligated to do for the state. And I think we need to, as they demonstrate in this building on a daily basis, be incredibly flexible in the options we provide to the parents to fulfill their obligations.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[16872-256] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford.
TEXT> I would like to speak on behalf of Mr. Love because, he made a more persuasive argument in support of public education. We are here to support public education. And, we I think we're in a difficult position at the time. That's obvious. And we don't need more chaos.  We need a stabilizing, situation.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Peterson, do you have any comments?

[16872-339] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: I had more.
TEXT> Oh, and Mr. Peterson has more good news. And on behalf of the board and the district, in particular, all the students in our district, the generosity of this community is absolutely overwhelming,  but not unanticipated. We have seen time and time again that Claremont pulls together and does what it needs to do to help their people. And so on behalf of the board, the students and the staff, we thank you all. And have something to add.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So, I the notes without on social media that I want you to recognize the Claremont Savings Bank with a donation of $100,000 to the Stevens High School Alumni Association.

[16872-496] James O'Shaughnessy | District Counsel (Drummond Woodsum) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: So depending upon if they have any credentials things like that. So you know, there's a good.
TEXT> There's like a sort of a labor law issue of having people working and not paying them a wage, like. So if you asked me as a lawyer, I'd say you can't have people performing work on behalf of the district for free without paying them a wage, that you'd be violating the Fair Labor Standards Act and probably several state laws.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: So what if you pay them $1?

[16872-642] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Unidentified: Second. There you go.
TEXT> Second. Okay. Any discussion? All in favor of authorizing Mr. Angel to sign. A document management. Representation. Letter on, on the behalf of the board, say I.
NEXT> Multiple: I II.

[16872-649] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. And thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> I just have some a question to ask. That kind of is connected with the audit, and maybe you can help with this. It's not this audit in particular,  but the, state of New Hampshire, on the behalf of the federal government, audits districts intermittently related to grant management. So it's a Bureau of Federal compliance. I know that we have been audited intermittently on our last audit was 2324. And we received that would developed as a result of that. Yeah. But it's just awesome for the public and to help me understand. So I was questioning why we hadn't received one of these federal fiscal grant management reports yearly. So I went to the Department of Education website, and they have actually a several recipient fiscal risk assessment report, which interestingly enough, Claremont is not has not been selected to be audited next year. Right.  So, and the criteria that they use to audit selecting districts changes year to year, and they give a percentage amount to specific indicators such as how  how many grant dollars. And actually, I think staff turnover in the business office is one of the triggers. And a multiple finding in all of our audits has been staff turnover at the Saw office.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And just for the board to know, to be aware of and the public to beware of, that's a problem because, as Mr. Campo has indicated, when you're asking another

[16872-708] Patrick O'Hearn | Human Resources Director, SAU 6 (sentence continuation) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. You.
TEXT> And you advise. School care on behalf of the employer. Okay.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Lauren. Anybody else? I have.

[16872-729] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Special education.
TEXT> And this describes the process. If a family requests an out of district evaluation for their child, it aligns everything with the procedures, the costs, the recommendation, observations, records review that we do within our own district if we do an in-house evaluation. So this is to be sure  that an out of district evaluation follows the same procedures. We, we have an older one. It's not as extensive as this. This was recommended by our legal counsel's firm. And we also, as a policy committee subcommittee, are recommending that we not only approve New Hampshire license, but also because we're so close to Vermont contiguous state. So those two pieces are included.  Also, we we should really have included a rate schedule from the administration and also making available parent guardian request information about where they can conduct those evaluations. Done. So that's for the administration to follow through. The policy subcommittee reviewed this policy and we are presenting this to you. You want to we can do that. This would be a first read. I would recommend, if you've read it and agree with what we're coming forward that we adopted tonight. I don't see that. So let's do one by one. So I'll make the I move that the we have a first read and adoption for policy IABAB special education evaluation second. Any discussion I didn't see anything that. Jumped out to. Me on any of these. Important. This one is. Kind of.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Seemed more than I agree. Kind of RSA driven. And. You know, industry driven. Want me to amend the motion to include all three policies? I think that's the most

[16872-798] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So do you need a vote? Did we vote?
TEXT> Yes. We need a movement. Well, all in favor of the motion as stated. Say I, I, I, not opposed. Motion passes. Thank you. Thank you. I know everybody is tired, but if we could, if you could just grace me with making sure that our agenda for next week or next meeting is  out, we're going to review the New Hampshire School Board, Association delegate assembly resolutions, continuing resolutions. There'll be a full throated discussion about the intern position, including what the affiliation is at the of the school of the university that they're working with,  the salary breakdown of why that they're being offered the salary and benefits, whether or not that we can bill for their services if they are working under another. Licensed clinical licensed provider. You are there any other questions that we want to ensure, that are that Miss Kennedy is prepared to answer? If anybody has any questions about the interns, could you please email Miss Kennedy or Chelsea to forward it to Miss Kennedy? So she has an opportunity to, dig around and find out the what, the where and the how. And please include Chelsea. Can we also have an update on where our administrative staff is? I know we have an issue related to not having a certified special education. Director and how we're going to manage that for our students. And is there any other agenda items that folks would like to have on the agenda?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We will have a budget update.

[16882-34] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: but I can send those tomorrow. Okay, so the first thing we start with when we do this presentation, and this is really just the, you know, the, the basic legal structure and, and traditional practices apply to school board school districts in New Hampshire.
TEXT> But we start with three core principles, because they're really very important to understanding, you know, where some of the lines exist, why you exist, and and so forth. RSA 191 a one and I'm sure you all know that RSA is the statute. Sometimes we'll be referring to some numbers that we  have the prefix e d. That's just a Department of Education regulation. But RSA 1891 a paragraph one,  shall be the duty of the school board to provide a district expense, elementary and secondary education for all pupils who reside in the district. That is that is why school board your you exist why the school boards exist. And I know we have two separate districts here. And fulfilling that duty is really your only function. And if you didn't have that function, then you wouldn't need to exist as a school board.  But we try to parse some of those words. It means different things to different people. And you also have to I don't think you have to remember, because I think you all remember that you have different constituencies. So, yes, you have you have parents, you have students, you have, you have members of the public, you have members of the public who are on fixed incomes.
NEXT> Will Phillips: And you have to take all of those things into account when you're, you know, trying to make decisions on behalf of your district and your community. But one of

[16882-35] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: think you have to remember, because I think you all remember that you have different constituencies. So, yes, you have you have parents, you have students, you have, you have members of the public, you have members of the public who are on fixed incomes.
TEXT> And you have to take all of those things into account when you're, you know, trying to make decisions on behalf of your district and your community. But one of the things we we would point out is when you're at a crossroads in your your own personal space for how do I vote on this particular event? I mean, occasionally it will happen that you you'll be conflicted and will have a difficult time, you know, deciding one way or the other. It's a good place to, to reflect as to what your function is, you know, why are you here? You're here to educate your kids and in your community. And, yes, you have these other,  you know, these other considerations. But in the end. That's why you're here. So just a reminder that sometimes that might tip the scales and make your decision making a little bit easier. So that's the first part of principle. Second one the collective authority of the school board. One thing that often comes as a surprise to newly elected people, and even even to experience school board members, is that when you're elected to serve on a school board, you have no authority other than to participate as a board member at a board meeting.
NEXT> Will Phillips: And so it's a little different. The public can participate in one way. But once the public comment period is over, they only get to participate if they're, you know,

[16882-37] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: chair. Interestingly, if you if you poke around all the New Hampshire statutes. Number one, you won't find anything that says school board members have any authority whatsoever. It's always the board. So all of the statutes, all of the regulations talk about the board.
TEXT> The only place where you even see reference to a chair is in 91, a paragraph two I mean, colon two, talking about who gets to declare when there's an emergency for an emergency meeting. That's the only place where a chair is even recognized in the statutes. So it's it's basically based on tradition.  Tradition that we carried over from from England and English common law. So what what can what type of authority can the board delegate? Well, they can delegate administrative. Thanks.  So when the chair is elected, the chair presides over the meeting. The chair probably is the person that donated to sign documents on behalf of the board. After the board has made a decision.  The chair,  often acts as the spokesperson in certain circumstances. There are boards that designate somebody else as a spokesperson.  They're instances where you might have a chair who does a lot of traveling and is not always available or just doesn't like to be a spokesperson. So you can designate somebody else.  You oftentimes will have committees that have specific projects. So a building committee perhaps, and it may be that the chair of the building committee is best suited to speak to the building project rather than the chair of the board.
NEXT> Will Phillips: So just those types of things. But what you can't delegate to an individual or even to a committee, are those things that should be determined by the board itself.

[16882-38] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: can designate somebody else. You oftentimes will have committees that have specific projects. So a building committee perhaps, and it may be that the chair of the building committee is best suited to speak to the building project rather than the chair of the board.
TEXT> So just those types of things. But what you can't delegate to an individual or even to a committee, are those things that should be determined by the board itself. So those things that are, you know, require a a collective decision by the board. Are always maintained by the board. There's the only two. There might be a third one that  was you know, it escapes me as a very minor, hardly used one or the two that are,  you know, maybe most commonly, of course, I'm forgetting. The second most common one is the student.  Oh, I know it's the check manifest. So the first one is student discipline. There's a statute that actually says that student discipline. So if you have to have a hearing for student discipline, a committee can do that. Committee of free board members can do that.  And then the second one is the check manifest. I don't, you know, every district kind of handles  check manifests a little differently. However, the requirement is that either the board approves all payments made by the treasurer or two or more members so authorized by the board to do so. So you can have this this, you know, some part of the board doing things on behalf of the board.
NEXT> Will Phillips: And those are the only two places where statutes say, guess what? Less than a quorum of the board can can take action. The third, really core principle is the

[16882-78] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: warning that, you know, it might be a legal change. So there might be a statute that requires you to do something. Cell phones. There's a good example. So we we've had a policy in our, you know, sample database for for 30 years, probably.
TEXT> And some districts had already adopted one. They had a different code, but I had sent out a, you know, updated version with the passage of this law. And  I've already found two districts. They have two different cell phone policies in their manual because they had their own code.  So just just a helpful suggestion.  So next, next, you know, area of, of  sort of administration and school board relationship. Is, is budget. And one thing about budget is and not just budget, but the spending of the money. That is a that is the fiscal  expression of policy. So any when you're setting your budget, you are deciding, here's where we're going to spend money. Now, obviously, you know, the vast majority of your budget is contractual and you don't really have much say about it. But then there are the other parts where you do,  and those decisions are  are given to you to put in your proposed budget and you use you have I think I know this. So you both both of the districts are annual meeting including Claremont. Right. Okay. So the voters have the final say, but your proposed budget is you're suggesting to the voters this is what will serve our students and our community and our business district best.
NEXT> Will Phillips: The the you know, the voters might tell you otherwise. And that's okay. That's their prerogative. But then once you have your budget, what you have is a bottom line

[16882-194] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: a tenured person and they request a hearing, the board might come to a different, you know, different conclusion and reinstate that person to the position. But that's the only way that somebody who is not nominated can remain in that position. For other employees.
TEXT> So non  professional employees and there's some there's some nuances in there. But just for the sake of this. We'll talk about professional professional that have teaching responsibilities.  But also your principal your media specialist and your guidance counselors are all within that sort of definition.  Other folks who have certifications may or may not be included.  And you, you know, you have to look at this specific person and so forth. Hiring of other employees. So these, you know, your your food staff, workers, your transportation employees, if you employ them directly, your,  custodians, your coaches,  you know, all all those other folks,  you can, treat them the same way you do teachers and require that the board approve every single  hire.  Or you can simply have a policy that allows the superintendent to do that and just have personnel reports  back to the,  you know, back to the board. So at least you know who's working for you.  I can tell you that the school board in Manchester is not, you know, spending a lot of time deciding on who's cleaning up the gym on Saturdays after the rec, you know, rec department and uses the gym.  But,  you know, the Hill School District, all of you know, 75 kids.
NEXT> Will Phillips: They're very involved in who's, you know, in their building and dealing with that one school that they have. That's a place, you know, when we talked about those shifting

[16882-199] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: of an issue. Again, you know, you you, you live in a community, you don't live in a bubble, and you're not required to adhere to the jury standard of, you know, really being distanced and not not have much information about a particular thing.
TEXT> Your, your elected officials and hopefully you kind of know what's going on in the schools and you know what's going on in your community. So you're aware of these things and you'll hear information from, you know, it might be in in the papers, it might be on social media, you might hear it from your kids or your spouse. That that's okay. It's the, you know, the passive,  collection of information that we just, you know, go through where we live in a community. That's one thing. It's the, the, the taking affirmative steps to get more information is what's prohibited. So not required to remain in the dark information on a need to know basis. So if you do have an event that maybe is, you know, leading its way into the school board,  level, it is okay for the superintendent to give you information that isn't specific evidence gathering. So, you know, you you know, you all heard that the kid was removed from the school  by the police. They got to tell you why. That's okay. But but, you know, finding out, you know,  what's going on at the kids life at home. And, you know, that type of thing that might come into a hearing is is  not something you need. The more information you have and the more somebody can point to your being affirmatively gaining information, the easier it is.
NEXT> Will Phillips: Number one, the hardware it is to remain impartial, but the easier it is for attorneys to create the issue. The idea that you are not impartial and and that

[16896-9] Molly Tremblay | Public commenter, Ward 1; early childhood educator (as announced; not  | 2025-10-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Any any objection to the changes to the agenda? All right. Seeing none, we'll move forward with the genda as mentioned. It start with citizens comments. Citizens wish to. Just need your name and ward, please.
TEXT> My name is Molly Tremblay. I'm a Ward one resident. Good evening. My name is Molly Tremblay, and I'm a Ward one resident and an early childhood educator in this city. I speak tonight not just as a resident, but as someone who works every day with the families and children that this board serves. Claremont has faced immense challenges over the last six months. We have been through a lot. However, what I have witnessed is a community that is overwhelmingly risen to the occasion. People, strangers have come together to organize fundraisers, volunteer their time and skills, and help everything fall into place so we can support sports, the arts, and other extracurriculars and programs for our next generation. These experiences are vital, and it is through the creative solutions of this community that our children continue to get the opportunities they deserve. I see on the agenda that there's going to be a discussion on the estimated tax rate calculation. I have two things. First, I would like to take the time to sincerely thank Mr. Matt Angel for his tireless work and dedication as a consultant brought in when the crisis arose. You stayed steadfast, putting in hard, long hours to manage this complex financial situation, crunching and organizing a mess of numbers that would make my head spin.
NEXT> Molly Tremblay: Thank you. Second, I would like to note and stress my primary message the families and citizens of Claremont are facing real struggles. My field of work has changed significantly.

[16896-70] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (opens superintendent's report) | 2025-10-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yes. Thank you. All right. Agenda item number two is our superintendents report.
TEXT> Okay. Good evening. So I have a few updates.  I would like, for the interest of time right now, if it's pleases the board to get right to these, part about the psychology intern update. And then I can get into my report, if that's okay. Yeah. Okay. McLeod, who's our acting director of student services right now. I'm asking you to come on up, please, and share the report that you have presented about the student technologies.  My name is.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: Jessica McLeod. I am the assistant director for student support services. In the absence of having a director of student services and standing in and reporting out on the school

[16896-72] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Jessica McCloud: one school psychologist. Currently, we have about 1500 students enrolled in the district. School psychologists are responsible for evaluating students from preschool age. So those age 3 to 5 all the way up to 12th grade. Evaluations also include those that are out of district.
TEXT> So students that we have placed at various,  out of district placements and those that are at Claremont Christian and charter schools. So things like are places like Riverview Academy, based on our numbers and how comprehensive the assessments that we're doing are?  This would equate to about roughly three full time school psychologists.  Our numbers are currently tracking at about 200 evaluations each year. Those evaluations include initial avowal. And then we're also legally obligated to reevaluate students every three years to determine if they're still eligible for special ed services.  Typically, a school psych on average handles about 40 to 70 evaluations. The time frame for those is about, on average, 15 to 20 hours per avowal. 5 to 6 of those hours may include direct testing. So this might be things like,  standard standardized assessments that you're doing with a student, clinical  observations or interviews.  And then the remaining time is used to to score, interpret, consult with parents and staff and report out.  I will tell you,  given our demographics. So we have about 30% of our students are for for special services. We have twice the number of students that are intellectually disabled.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: About twice the number for emotional disturbance and are developmental delay are usually not just in one area. So they may not just be in speech and language impairment, but

[16896-73] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Jessica McCloud: is used to to score, interpret, consult with parents and staff and report out. I will tell you, given our demographics. So we have about 30% of our students are for for special services. We have twice the number of students that are intellectually disabled.
TEXT> About twice the number for emotional disturbance and are developmental delay are usually not just in one area. So they may not just be in speech and language impairment, but they're likely we see delays in like adaptive skills. Some motor difficulties. Many of them are medically complex and that leads to more comprehensive evaluations being needed.  So even the train knows that we're doing  a lot of times because even things like Covid have compacted that. So in the past we've done a file review, and now we have to have  a more updated information on these students. And so that lends to having a more comprehensive assessment on them. Based on the aggregate aggregated data I've seen, as well as reaching out to some of the resources I have, which is I sit on a currently on a  board with other directors in the area, and so I reached out to several of them about what the average salary looks like. I've also used resources such as the Bureau of Labor Statistics and more present.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Excuse me.

[16896-88] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Jessica McCloud: caseload. When we looked at filling the position in the past, we've used private psychologists that were in the area. The rates were between 130 and $175 an hour. Boothby specifically was a virtual school psychologist, and that was about $145 an hour. So if.
TEXT> You think of that in terms of the length of some of these evaluations, it can become pretty expensive. I think the other piece of this is that, and we were seeing this with other related service staff. They're not in person. There's such a shortage of them that we're having to use virtual evaluators,  and it can be pretty clunky and cumbersome in terms of getting that infrastructure for the students to be tested. It often many of our students don't have the prerequisite skills to sit on a computer and do those evaluations. It really has to be done by someone who can be in person. Take the time to get to know the kill the child, build that rapport with them to get the best testing results. So these interns, I think there's a lot of misinformation out there. And I just wanted to clarify. Plymouth State  offers the only nationally accredited school psych program in Massachusetts, Vermont and Maine.  And these are where these students come from. They have completed all of their coursework as graduate students. They are under a letter of a statement of eligibility through the Doe.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: Now, school psychologist, because there's a shortage, you can work as a psychologist. With a statement of eligibility under through the Department of Ed. You can also. We also have

[16896-91] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So.
TEXT> When we get to Medicaid, I think there's some confusion around this too. So a fraction of the school psych services are billable if you think about things like consultation. Report writing, those things aren't billable for us. The biggest bang for our buck with school psychologist is really the counseling  and some of the evaluations. So anything that is when a student has an IEP, the services and interventions that are put in that IEP are to, to, allow that student to have access to their learning. Sometimes a student will have a medical diagnosis. And those services  are  are also medically billable.  So when that happens, we have to be certain as an IEP team  that that the those evaluations are medically necessary. And we have to also prescribe them into the IEP at the same time that we're looking to evaluate them. The problem with that is one of the issues right now is that we don't have enough special educators to amend these IEPs to prevent us from being audited. So if if we feel like we need to evaluate a student and it's medically necessary, we also have to, in tandem, make sure that we're our IEPs are shored up at the same time. The other piece of this I think that's important is trying to evaluations the ones that are billable, you have to the student also has to have Medicaid.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: The, the parent has to be willing to kind of identify that the student has or willing to share that the child has Medicaid and also sign off, that they're

[16896-94] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Jessica McCloud: legally obligated to have we run the risk of delayed and missed assessments, inadequacy in the quality of the assessments and or the the complexity of these assessments that need to be done and appropriate and appropriate interventions. We run the risk of doughy complaints.
TEXT> So complaints with the Department of Ed, there is increased chances of litigation and legal fees, compensatory services. So if  we can't provide evaluations in a timely manner, parents can actually ask for independent evaluations and then we have to reimburse them for those things.  We also run the risk of if we do not spend at the this. So as this has been explained to me, because this was new for me as I step into this role, if we do not spend the same amount  on special ed as we did last year to assure that we're,  demonstrating a maintenance of effort, we could run the risk of losing federal funding. And then the other piece of this is it just shows a disproportionate impact on some of our vulnerable populations. So if we don't, we can't offer quality assessments. It really does impact our kids. And getting them. The services that they need. They the interns do offer a continuity of services. They help address this critical shortage. I can tell you that in addition to some of the,  the, higher wages that they're seeing down south that are dry. You know, they're they're definitely a lot of these interns are looking to move into Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire because there's higher wages.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: We also are competing with a lot of these private, private companies like Boothby and Silent. And because they're able to offer more competitive hourly wages. And so that's another

[16896-95] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Jessica McCloud: can tell you that in addition to some of the, the, higher wages that they're seeing down south that are dry. You know, they're they're definitely a lot of these interns are looking to move into Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire because there's higher wages.
TEXT> We also are competing with a lot of these private, private companies like Boothby and Silent. And because they're able to offer more competitive hourly wages.  And so that's another challenge for us. And so part of, you know, hiring these interns was to address this shortage, shore up medicaid next year.  And really, the retention of personnel, I can tell you, I was a paid school psych intern here five years ago, and I've stayed here because of the quality of, the related service staff that I work with. The paraprofessionals, just the special ed department in general. I have not seen a huge turnover until recent years, and I feel like a real sense of commitment in trying to make sure that we hire the right people to to deliver the services that our kids are entitled to. Our kids are our biggest investment in this district. And, while I wasn't the one that was responsible for hiring them, I definitely was involved in that process. So I felt a responsibility to communicate that with you guys.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So just.

[16896-128] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Where they mean they have their own caseload.
TEXT> So they're picking  so, they have a number of evaluations that they're doing in a certain building. So for example, in nard, one of our, one of our school sites, Jocelyn is the school psychologist for dessert. And so she is responsible for going to the preschool meetings,  consulting with the preschool, the person who's setting up referrals right now,  meeting with parents. She's also working on the evaluations at dinner two at the same time. Any in addition to those, they have some responsibility. They're doing, some of the behavior management. So they have some of the functional behavior assessments for some of our students in the district. And that includes a behavior. So the behavior interventions.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Conducting the assessments, the evaluations, and then there with the certified school psychologist for the meetings that they attend right now.

[16896-465] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-10-15
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: Well, you don't want. You don't want.
TEXT> If I. I'm sorry. My only my only comment if I can just respond to you. We would not have anyone providing services to our children if we did not have these people in place. I understand your question is about billable under Medicaid. There are restrictions in terms of what services can be billed in that, even for someone who is has that right? I am.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: But we're not taking anything.

[16896-467] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-10-15
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: But we're not taking anything.
TEXT> But for us at this point, it was, it is and it has been for a long time having people who can provide services to our students.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: I fully.

[16896-489] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-10-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I is weapons on school policy on property and it defines both the RSA and federal statutes. The policy Committee is recommending that the language be members of the public who violate this policy will be reported to local law enforcement, rather than the word.
TEXT> May we want stronger language for that. You had all of these in your packet J I students rights and responsibilities. This is a priority policy. It's very brief refers to board policies regarding student disciplinary procedures. Then we have JLDBA behavior management and intervention process. It adds one sentence, talks about an ongoing review of the policy. And then those are all of the student policies. So I would like if we would a motion to if you want to do a first read and we can bring it back.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What's the recommendation of the policy committee?

[16951-13] Gary Merchant | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID) | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Sorry.
TEXT> That's okay. I appreciate this opportunity to address the board. I stand before this board as a concerned community member about the current process for filling the vacancy on the board. The board remains evenly split between two candidates. Both have strong qualifications. But this division underscores the importance of making the appointment process as transparent, inclusive and fair as possible. To that end, I respectfully ask the board to open the search to additional applicants from the community, allowing a wider pool of candidates would help build consensus among current board members and strengthen public confidence in the integrity of the process and open process. Ensures the board's final decision reflects the diverse voices and interests of the district it serves. Our schools our students deserve leadership selected through a process that emphasizes openness, collaboration and public trust. I encourage the board to seize this opportunity to show these values by reopening the search for this essential position. Thank you for your attention and commitment to serving the community. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just so the community is aware, we allow folks to speak on agenda items that we are going to be voting on prior after a board discussion, but prior to

[16951-32] Rebecca | Claremont Middle School teacher; SREA building representative; Ward 1  | 2025-11-05
PREV> Rebecca: have no, no solid nurse. And consistency is the word that keeps coming to mind. Yes. Sometimes there is a place to go for to send children when they need a break, when they're starting to get dysregulated. But it's not somebody, not always there.
TEXT> There are two places they technically could go, but we never quite sure of the status of that. And if they're dealing with one issue, then that's it. The room is closed. We used to have a behaviorist there that would be able to come to you to say, yep, you know,  I'll kind of check out the situation and be able to decide whether that kid needs to go out or not. These students need that consistency. They need to have leadership that is consistent. They need a nurse that is consistent. We need this. Your teachers are suffering. I don't know how many times I hear, I don't know how much more I can take. I'm so glad that I'm close to retirement. What are we going to do next year? Because nobody has any thought that this is going to get better, and you guys have been clear about that. But I hope that you are starting to anticipate how you're going to keep who you have, because this is not sustainable. So please, I know this has been hard and you have been doing so much work, but it's not over. Please address these issues. Your students of Claremont need this.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you.

[16951-38] Cassandra Edwards | Disnard School teacher; SREA building representative; Ward 3 (self-ID) | 2025-11-05
PREV> Cassandra Edwards: they don't know how to handle it. And we don't have the support as much as our administrators are always moving. You never see them sitting anywhere unless there's nobody in the building, because they are always trying to support teachers the best they can.
TEXT> But to mimic what miss said, we're not okay. We're all doing the best we can. We're all here because we are committed to doing everything we can for the students and for the town, but we can't. We can't do that at the expense of ourselves. I go home every night, and I don't have anything left for my own kids, because I've spent the last 7.5 hours trying to get 247 year olds to listen, to learn, to be okay, to get along. And it is exhausting. We're exhausted. We're going to be sick because we're exhausted. And there's so many of us in the building, and we don't really have the infrastructure to cover that when it happens.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you.

[16951-41] Michelle | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID — first name only; a second commente | 2025-11-05
PREV> Michelle: coming to save you. Put on your oxygen mask and move forward. This whole thing is like being in a relationship with a narcissistic, significant other. We're the only ones being affected as everyone doing the work, the resilient ones, and not those showing improving.
TEXT> So many parents and teachers they are that they are not being heard or even respected. Maybe you take the time to go into the classrooms and explain to the students, our children, while you taking them away from the teachers. They adore the school they call safety and why all their dots around them  are pouring from empty cups and may, as kids are getting stuck with the crap end of the sticks instead of enjoying school as children should because others created a mess and you kids have to deal with it and then teach a lesson on how they need to be accountable for their own actions when they misbehave or do something wrong. That your hard working class helps us, but yet your education means nothing. No subs full of classes and being taught and screens all day, or having days upon days off when your parents, your advocates, and your teachers told us this would happen and should have been done before school as they saw it coming, but yet we ignore them.
NEXT> Michelle: We moved on with our own ideas and not collaboration. That's how this has been done the whole time and it's very disappointing. There have been people that have tried

[16951-56] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Just want to go through so this week is Schools Psychologist Appreciation Week. So I want to thank the school psychologist for their assessments and preparation for their IEP and 504 meetings. Their consultation for behavior prevention plans, their program development, working on behavioral programs.
TEXT> They allow us to monitor student progress and respond to student needs across the district. So we thank all of the school psychologists that we have  and appreciate you during your week. It's always a special time, but it was specially during this recognition week.  And so other thing I wanted to update quickly is congratulating the Stevens High School varsity girls soccer team. They had a one zero victory yesterday over Saint Thomas. They are now advancing to the state championship game on Saturday the eighth. Hopefully people can join at 3 p.m.. So nice that  so 3 p.m. on Saturday, they'll be at Raymond High School, at Raymond High School against Raymond High School. Sorry, at Bedford High School. So we wish them luck and congratulations. Girls soccer. That's a big accomplishment.  Families, I just want to do a shout out. We thank you for all your doing support of our work with our students. We are working on scheduling for next year and recognize that this month is really wonky, and we have a lot of days out of school and we apologize for that. So we do have parent teacher conferences on Monday the 10th of November next Monday, so we hope families  are signing up for times. All the staff are sending out there. They're available times.  And getting ready for that. So get a chance to meet with your your teachers. Get a chance to find out how your student is doing in school.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We'll make sure if you need translators, we have translators available as well. And so just a reminder, there is no school on the 10th next Monday for the parent

[16951-58] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: So we appreciate your support on that and families, and we hope everybody had a great time for that. So I just want to give an update to we said we're talking about safety. So CMS student who was hit by a car on Friday.
TEXT> That student is recovering. It is okay. But we thank all the CMS administrators, Officer Simons and everyone for the response for that.  We appreciate the work on this. It was a very concerning time for our student  and our staff, obviously, and we're still redressing all the safety protocols and procedures and looking at some other options to to make sure it's as safe as possible. So in terms of the entry into school, and we'll get back to the other parts for actually in school in a moment to.  So I just wanted to give an update. There is a question about the class sizes. So what we have for maple classrooms student to teacher ratios. So kindergarten there's 54 kindergartners at Maple. And so there's a class size average of there's three classes of 18. And so that's well within the standard industry standard for students in that grade level. It's a very lovely number. What's all you. Coming from Massachusetts it would be ideal to have 18 students in kindergarten. I understand it's maybe not what we recommend or we've seen in our district here.  But that's a decent number there. So in first grade, there's 55 students for an average of 18.3.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So there's three classes of 18 or so students. And so for second grade, there's 46 students. The class size average is 15. And there's three classes of 15 was

[16951-122] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: about that. So, we'll be talking about a little bit about transportation. And so federally, we're required to make sure it's an event where a student started. We try and ideally keep a student if they started in one school, keep them in that school.
TEXT> It doesn't always geographically work. It doesn't always work transportation wise.  I will say, having come from southern New England, it's a little bit more accessible to transportation options. There's a little bit more on trained or subways or bussing that's not as available in northern New England. And it's a little bit more of a challenge.  So we do have some payments that go out and we work with and trying to find agencies that can help support. Sometimes it's not atypical to actually pay somebody who's associated with a family sometimes. And that comes through federal money.  It comes through in conjunction. So it's not always just us. It's working with another district. So we had a student say it could be sometimes across the border in Vermont. And that's something that we want to look at to is because it's an interstate, transportation arrangement. Are there you know, we're looking at all options for transportation already that exist and exploring other options to to make sure it's fiscally prudent. We also want to minimize the amount of time a student is in a transportation situation. And so we want to make sure as for McKinney Vento, that a student, you know, depending on where the school is that they may have moved to, if it's towards the end of the year, we always look at like, what's the best placement for the child?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: How long would they be there? Sometimes it's for the rest of the year. We agree to split the costs. And so it could be it could be Newport. It

[16951-123] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: want to make sure as for McKinney Vento, that a student, you know, depending on where the school is that they may have moved to, if it's towards the end of the year, we always look at like, what's the best placement for the child?
TEXT> How long would they be there? Sometimes it's for the rest of the year. We agree to split the costs.  And so it could be it could be Newport. It could be clear, I mean, Charlestown, it could be across the river.  And so we always take that into consideration is how long the student would be transporting. Is it best? Ideally, yes. It's best to keep them in the school where they started.  But  all those factors come into it. So we're just going to share that we're we're looking at costs. We're looking at centers  to make sure we've exhausted all the options to. We are working to make sure Courtney Porter's again our McKinney Vento specialists, and works with all of the schools where our students go to. Courtney, if you want to share anything else. I'm sorry, I didn't realize you were able to come, so. Thank you.  She was originally going to present, and I wasn't sure she was coming. So anything else? Tag on to please. Courtney Porter, Ward one. I am the school districts. School social worker McKinney Bentleys on DC wire.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: Prior contact mental health coordinator. All the the And first and foremost, I just want to say from someone who works at a district level is a community member. I

[16951-124] Courtney Porter | Director of Wellness; School Social Worker and McKinney-Vento liaison, | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: you were able to come, so. Thank you. She was originally going to present, and I wasn't sure she was coming. So anything else? Tag on to please. Courtney Porter, Ward one. I am the school districts. School social worker McKinney Bentleys on DC wire.
TEXT> Prior contact mental health coordinator. All the the  And first and foremost, I just want to say  from someone who works at a district level is a community member.  I am so sorry to our families and our students and our teachers that we're going through this. I know that this has caused capital T trauma. I'm hearing it from my peers. I'm hearing it from my families. I'm hearing it from my students. So I want you to know that I'm very blessed that I've said this before at a board meeting. I thank the school board for not cutting my position.  And that I am working very closely with so many of our community partners. As Miss Kennedy has mentioned, we have a lot of great families, like, there are people sitting on this board right now who have donated items to Courtney's Closet, who donated money. There's people here in the audience. I'm sure there's people everywhere that, we have a network of really good stuff that's going on in the midst of all this craziness. So I just want to say thank you to everyone out there who is donating and, for Thanksgiving food boxes, make sure that you reach out to the Clement Soup Kitchen.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: And we have a lot of great organizations that are helping. We do know that the Snap benefits are coming to an end. The Claremont Elks Lodge is doing a

[16951-125] Courtney Porter | Director of Wellness; School Social Worker and McKinney-Vento liaison, | 2025-11-05
PREV> Courtney Porter: of really good stuff that's going on in the midst of all this craziness. So I just want to say thank you to everyone out there who is donating and, for Thanksgiving food boxes, make sure that you reach out to the Clement Soup Kitchen.
TEXT> And we have a lot of great organizations that are helping. We do know that the Snap benefits are coming to an end. The Claremont Elks Lodge is doing a great job at supplying  all of our schools with what we're calling community food markets. So these are items that families can take home on the weekends. Trinity church provides weekend food bags to us. And I also want to let folks know that we have, a grant with cartwheel, which is an online mental health program. And so we can help families to get telehealth so we can work with students during the school day. It's also something that a families are in need of mental health supports when they're at home. They can do some mental health supports at home. I'm currently working with the New Hampshire Department of Ed on a Safe and Supportive Schools grant, where we are looking at our tier one supports, including looking at what is our attendance look like? The loss of our  truancy officer is just greatly impacting our students ability to access their education. Scott Maple was an amazing asset to us this past year, and so right now school social workers are out.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: We're doing the boots on the ground work. I did two home visits today for students that are just really struggling to get to school. And the biggest thing that

[16951-129] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thanks, Courtney.
TEXT> So just following up with the safe and supportive grants, what I do need to look to is to talk about a group. So we have been offered a grant for 16. Thousand dollars. And so I need your approval to make sure we can accept it.  And so it's a two part piece. And so it's the Hampshire Charitable Foundation in conjunction with Dartmouth. Health. Yes. And so it's $10,000,  from Dartmouth and $6,000 from New Hampshire Charitable Foundation. And so five of the thousand dollars we are hoping to engage in a contract with. We are hope. And so they are a wellness support. And so they would allow us to have a wellness coach, specifically at the middle school right now.  And that person would be obviously vetted through all the fingerprinting, everything else, and they would sit at the middle school and be able to take tier one students who are in need of more support. And so this would be builds through insurance for the students insurances. But this particular offer would make sure that the  school can engage in the contract. It would be paid for the a $5,000 retainer. To have them join us would be paid through this grant.  And then to be able to make sure we continue to accept it.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So with this other $10,000, we have the ability to provide more food, assistance for more snacks, for more hospital need. I mean, for medical needs. Courtney, please, you have

[16951-151] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: for students to come in after that so they can see more students. It's usually not as crisis level as, you know, a bigger mental health needs. It could. Right? Absolutely. Just managing day to day stress. It's a great resource and it helps folks.
TEXT> And again, some of the students who are just sort of needing support but are not  at a crisis level of another agency that we. Only have. Absolutely.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: This in collaboration with the work that we're doing through the Car real Grant, which is again, so so the cartwheel program that we're doing that's free to students, that's

[16951-159] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Just getting kids through the day or whatever the issues are, which will provide support for the middle school.
TEXT> And it's going to it's going to provide support for the students of families and the teachers.
NEXT> Unidentified: Like, yeah.

[16951-272] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: many of professional development days we've had to exchange. There will be some staff meeting time, professional development wise, and that'll be up to building principles to discuss what's happening within each building on those days that we're having staff meetings in that PD plan.
TEXT> But then we're also looking at how to make sure the instruction is keeping going. For sure. And, across the evaluation tool system as well. And  we're not ready to share tonight exactly what that's looking like. But we're really, how do we make sure, you know, we inspect what we expect. Right. And so we're students are learning teachers. And I understand and I certainly hear the concern about the numbers and things like that too. So, so meeting in the middle there. And so how do we help the staff have professional development to support the needs of the students that are in their rooms, but then also at the same time keeping the need on the, the, the academic achievement within the classrooms and things too. So splitting the difference in that part.  Thank you. And that will come under the grant manager piece too. So hopefully to have somebody to manage that very very soon.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Can we have that as an ongoing agenda item, the progress of the professional development so that we send me a quick email just so I will. Thank

[16951-542] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: Year or for this year? Yes, for the high school at $17,000.
TEXT> For student first. Second. Mr. Howard seconds. Any discussion? The only thing I'd like to community to know is that special education costs are paid for by  the sending, town. So this district from where the student is coming. So the 17,000 is just for regular education expenses. So the, Claremont School District is not assume the financial burden of special education costs for that for any student that comes from out of district. Okay, okay. Any other.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Or any student that wants to come in. That's not in the district would need to pay $17,000 per year. That's correct. To be in our high school.

[16951-595] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR 'Mr. Harrington') | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: You want to give the Reader's Digest version. You came all this way tonight and you're sitting there. Sure. Come on. Come and give the Reader's Digest version then.
TEXT> So I'm sorry about the confusion. The. From our understanding. The  the the second. Meeting this month was. Going to be the presentation and then voting. To. Approve it. First meeting in December. We spent we're spending a lot of time going through the program studies. Kind of revamping the entire thing, really looking for a couple of things to make it more user friendly. We've taken really starting the introduction of career clusters. So now the conversation is going to get away from, hey, what do you want to take to graduate, to what do you want to do with your life after graduation? Here are the courses that can  get you on the path that you want. Right? So now we're really kind of looking at how do we engage students in something that's meaningful to them? We're also looking at we have access to a, a survey that kind of as a student interest survey. So now the students, when they talk to you and say, well, I don't know what I want to be, you can have a survey and say, hey, these are the things that you're really good at. Here are the careers that align with that. We are looking at,  the at 306, the new guidance, things that need to be embedded into some coursework.  Oh, what was it?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That's a quick link on the agenda as well.

[16951-610] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: the next election. There are more than five months until the election in March, and that is too long to leave the post vacant. He also said that the law that he cited is not a controlling law. So, technically the board could ignore. That.
TEXT> But technically the board could ignore that. And technically the city council could choose not to act to fill the vacancy.  Over the weekend, Mr. Sprague and I had a conversation, and he  submitted a letter to the board, which I forwarded out to the board, and I will read the letter into the record. Dear chair Whitney and members of the school board, I hope this message finds you well. I am writing to formally request reinstatement to the Claremont School Board.  Serving on the board has been one of the most meaningful experiences of my post-retirement life. I remain committed to the students and staff of the district, and I must confess that I miss being on the board and the team we built. During my tenure on the board, I worked diligently to bring forward responsible budgets, improved curriculum standards, and advocated for competitive salaries for our collective bargaining units, to name a few initiatives I champion. I also was quick to volunteer for almost anything. I believe these efforts reflect my dedication to the board's goals and the broader interest of our school community. While the circumstances that led to my departure are complex, I have taken time to reflect and I feel I have much to offer in the remainder of my elected term, and perhaps beyond.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I am confident that I can return with renewed focus, a collaborative spirit, and use my professional experience for the benefit of all. I respectfully ask the board to consider

[16951-681] Kevin Tyson | Public commenter; applicant for the vacant school board seat | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: I'm sorry, I can't hear you, Mr. Tyson. It's not like I know it's not the microphone. If you could just raise your voice. The microphone is for the CCTV.
TEXT> I was really impressed with how much money I was able to raise for the Stevens Alumni Association. Just by threatening to run. It was. I've never made money like that in my life.  Seemed like a  backroom deal as it was going down, but I stuck with the process. I am not a professional educator. My experience with being an educator is only this year, two days a week. I'm at the other end of this building, tutoring the kids in the academy. I don't get paid for that. This is me giving back to the community. That's the kind of person that I am.  That's scary guy. And as far as education options goes. We are not in the business of getting people out of schools. We are in the business of getting information to parents. We have a website where you can find a vast array of information  about education opportunities around the state, public, private, the entire spectrum. We have fairs at different parts of the state that bring together parents and providers, and we invite the public schools at every one of these.
NEXT> Kevin Tyson: So if you want to think that I have horns, feel free. But this is the person I actually am. I am contributing to the community and whatever you know

[16951-699] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I'm speaking in support of Mr. Lava as a public educator committed to being an advocate for students and public schools, which is the role of people on this board.
TEXT> Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak for the motion? My opposition would be because, quite frankly, I see a school board as many other boards. And although I value, the experience and I think the experience that Mr. Lava has and has given back to the community and into the schools, to the students is valuable. We are surrounded by educators. We get all vice from educators. We are guided by educators. We are surrounded everybody we get advice from. As an educator, the only people that represents regular people and and the community is people that are outside of education that have no. And there's a there's about.
NEXT> Unidentified: Other people.

[16951-831] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: All in favor, say aye. Aye. None opposed. Motion passes.
TEXT> The  motion. The policies that we are  recommending is the policy subcommittee. B first read slash adoption are a DB drug free workplace drug free schools JFAB admission of homeless children and unaccompanied youth, which also incorporates the transportation piece that was talked about earlier. JLF reporting child abuse  and neglect. And we've added in a phrase for adult age students because the contact information is different. Deck was discussed at an earlier time. It's the addition of one sentence recommended by Mr. Angel JLDBB is suicide prevention b g board policy development which incorporates.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Those right.

[16951-909] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: cutbacks and the status of our government right now. I'm wondering if there's anything that. And not for tonight. What? What are we doing to increase applications for free and reduced lunch that families may be able to slide into during this time of need?
TEXT> Sure. Does the music thing. If I could just follow up? Yes. So I just I want to thank Taylor Trudeau publicly. And so I've asked her right now and I apologize because I, I understand the need for it. As you may have heard tonight, there's a lot of other things that are also happening. We're triaging a lot of, you know, areas of need. And so Taylor Trudeau, who's the high school music teacher, and so she's agreed to help us to be that liaison with the public. And so with that, specifically, Melissa Richmond is looking into supports potentially as an external person. And so  there are some  CBA things that we're working on in terms of,  you know, stipends and things like that too, as what does it look like? And so that kind of goes into our discussion about a whole variety of things too. And so it's just, it's not as quick and easy as we would like it to be, unfortunately. And so just people like, I hear you, I want the kids to have band, you know, I play the flute, I get it, I want it to.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so fifth to eighth grade. So like I need this to happen too. But at the same time we also need to make sure we're following all the protocols

[16958-1] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: I can appreciate appreciate the pressures that you are under, but they are not relevant from a legal perspective. If the board does not feel the fill the vacancy at its next meeting, there is a risk that the City Council votes to fill it.
TEXT> From a legal standpoint, the board will have no valid or legal way to stop them, and that would be a valid appointment until the next election. There are more than five months until the election in March, and that is too long to leave the post vacant. He also said that the law that he cited is not a controlling law. So, technically the board could ignore that, but technically the board could ignore that. And technically the city council could choose not to act to fill the vacancy. Over the weekend, Mr. Sprague  and I had a conversation, and he submitted a letter to the board, which I forwarded out to the board, and I will read the letter into the record. Dear Chair Whitney and members of the school board, I hope this message finds you well. I am writing to formally request reinstatement to the Claremont School Board. Serving on the board has been one of the most meaningful experiences of my post-retirement life. I remain committed to the students and staff of the district, and I must confess that I miss being on the board and the team we built.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: During my tenure on the board, I worked diligently to bring forward responsible budgets, improve curriculum standards, and advocated for competitive salaries for our collective bargaining units, to name a

[16958-63] Kevin Tyson | Public commenter; applicant for the vacant school board seat (sentence | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: I'm sorry, I can't hear you, Mr. Tyson. It's not what I know. It's not the microphone. If you could just raise your voice. The microphone is for the CCTV.
TEXT> I was really. Impressed with how much money I was able to raise for the Stephens Alumni  Association. Just by threatening to run. It was. I've never made money like that in my life.  Seemed like a backroom deal as it was going down, but I stuck with the process. I am not a professional educator. My experience with being an educator is only this year, two days a week. I'm at the other end of this building, tutoring the kids in the academy. I don't get paid for that. This is me giving back to the community. That's the kind of person that I am. That's scary guy. And as far as education options goes. We are not in the business of getting people out of schools. We are in the business of getting information to parents. We have a website where you can find a vast array of information about education opportunities around the state, public, private, the entire spectrum. We have fairs at different parts of the state that bring together parents and providers, and we invite the public schools at every one of these.
NEXT> Kevin Tyson: So if you want to think that I have horns, feel free. But this is the person I actually am. I am contributing to the community and whatever you know

[16958-81] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I'm speaking in support of Mr. Lavallée as a public educator committed to being an advocate for students and public schools, which is the role of people on the scored.
TEXT> Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak towards the motion? My opposition would be because, quite frankly, I see a school board as many other boards, and although I value,  the experience and I think the experience that Mr. Lavallée has and has given back to the community and into the schools, to the students is valuable. We are surrounded by educators. We get all from educators. We are guided by educators. We are surrounded everybody we get advice from.  As an educator, the only people that represents regular people and and the community is people that are outside of education that have no. And there's a there's a educators. Excuse me. There is obviously a specific bias that comes when you step onto a board and you have experience. I would have a tremendous amount of bias if I stepped on a board that was closely linked to my profession. So for me, a school board should reflect its community more, and we should have voices that are disparate. We should have. I wish more parents would be able to join, but so many parents have demanding schedules and are overwhelmed with their families. And so for me, I think we have plenty of educators giving us advice.  And  quite frankly, being the president of the union is it is is a biased position to have come from. And so I don't necessarily take that as a positive.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Unions have an important, important role and unions are respected. And as an individual that has been on the negotiating committee, I have negotiated for the best pay that this

[16976-146] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-11-13
PREV> Matt Angell: that, it will save about 12 days worth of time. Okay. We're having difficulties, and the difficulties seem to be on our side of the house. So we're, It's been ongoing problem right now. I'm hoping to have that up and running by next week.
TEXT> We have just turned on, employee access and  the the the all three districts have owned employee access for about three years now. And what it is, it's it's an employee portal. So it's an employee self-serve portal. So the employees can go in there and they can get copies of their paychecks, copies of their W-2. So if they're going to go out and get like a mortgage, they can, they can download that information and that removes time from the saw. Also, we're going to be looking at seeing if we can do  our time sheets through that. Okay. We're going to try to do electronic contracting through that.  You can look at your and vacation accruals right now and you can get a copy of your contract through this. Okay.  Unfortunately, trying to get Claremont and Unity on has been difficult, and I'm hoping to get a link to get both of those  out to the employees by tomorrow. They said they're trying to get it out by tomorrow. And the problem is, is, if you look at the database, there are three entities within the same database. And so they have to build special links  because say you six is the parent and the two school districts are the children. And so they have to build special links for those.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Okay. So we're trying to do things to buy ourselves time and become more efficient. But we do welcome others to provide guidance. And actually we're getting copies of from

[16982-3] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: zero victory over Raymond High School, secured by the first half goal from Peyton Ferland and an impenetrable defense anchored by senior goalie Audrina Pelton, marking the program's first state title in 37 years and a triumphant against all odds story for the Claremont community.
TEXT> And whereas this championship represents not only athletic excellence but also the perseverance of student athletes, coaches, families and supporters who rallied amid challenges to keep extracurricular programs alive and embodying the spirit of against all odds we play on. And Whereas the achievements of these young women serve as an inspiration to students across the Claremont School District promoting values of hard work, sportsmanship and community pride. Now, therefore, be it resolved at the Claremont School Board on behalf of the Claremont School District and the entire community, thereby congratulates the Stevens High School Lady Cardinals soccer team, their coaches, staff, and families on their outstanding accomplishment as a 2025 and high AA Division three State Champions. And be it further resolved that November 8th, 2025, and henceforth will be recognized in the Claremont School District as a day to celebrate this historic victory and the enduring legacy of the Lady Cardinals. Stamping and out the proclamations and the roses for us. And we're going to start with the coaches. And, we have  Tim Saint-Pierre.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. How about, Addison DeRosa? I don't care. Payton from.

[16982-37] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (speaking in citizens' comments a | 2025-11-19
PREV> Melissa Lewis: Disney Elementary School staff were able to purchase a shirt if they wish. We'll keep working on how we can get these out into other buildings as well, but our pride does not go away. And I think Our Lady Cardinals, showed that quite well.
TEXT> That great and hard from Claremont. It's in our kids, it's in our educators. And we're just proud to be here. So huge shout out tonight to everybody that's been supported.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[16982-40] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: kind of taken over into the HR role, so she's unable to assist us. And Miss Kronborg has really stepped up, and she is going to be assuming many of the more duties that this weatherboard was doing, but it's going to be learning curve.
TEXT> So we just beg patients from the community and they're both fantastic people, and we're very grateful for what Chelsea has done for us and what well, it's going to do moving forward. So number one is professional development. Building level administrators received training over the past two weeks on appropriate application of the approved approved behavior matrices  policies, civil rights and due process, both regular education and special education students. The PD sessions were led by Luke Webster from Drummond Woodson and Tara Gear, the consultant that has been working with our special education team. Professional development for educators in the near future will target areas that executive leadership has identified as knowledge deficit issues over the past five years. The deficit areas includes classroom management, tier one and tier two instruction. Mrs. Kennedy will speak more on this when we discuss our New Hampshire Statewide Assessment System results.  Tier one instruction is the core instruction just for the community. Tier one instruction is the core instruction provided to all students that is differentiated to meet the needs of the whole class. Tier two instruction addresses the needs of students who are not progressing as expected in tier one, and often focuses on specific skill deficits, such as particular math concepts or phonics.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Our next item is behavioral specialist positions and budget impacts. Currently, we have two programs at CMS that were previously Esser funded the Arc, which is the Academic Resource Center

[16982-75] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: We were trying to look at that today just to get that we didn't finish it. So I can get this specific numbers. It's a little bit hard because some of the positions changed a little bit. So it's not you know, it sounds.
TEXT> Like you've been meeting the students needs by having teachers teach two subjects, which they can do with the sixth.,
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: More challenging.

[16982-77] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: More challenging.
TEXT> Standing and changing the nature. But that doesn't mean that the children are not being serviced or taught in a classroom.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So it's trickier.

[16982-166] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: I know. Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> So then a couple other programs we have. So the early education self-contained.  And so there needs to be at least one educator special educator for that for those are intellectual disability micro credentials that the student needs to have are a teacher, I should say needs to have a pair to keep that program open. There are five pairs for individual one on ones, and so that's what the students require for their IEP. There's a max of 12 students. And so right now we're looking for some more pair educators to we actually I think we have everybody miss McCloud just to confirm. The early education self-contained room. Is that one fully staffed I see initials and everything else.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: Okay. So, because I gave you the numbers and I don't have them. But. So early, we call that so program approval. It's called the early education program, but it's

[16982-230] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Matt Angell: they belong at. And so as part of me building the budget, I'm doing a staffing map and where they sit in each of the schools and so that I can make sure that they're moved to the appropriate accounting category within the financial statement.
TEXT> So that's in flux, moving it to where they really are at the moment. Correct. Okay. So I looked I looked at, regular instruction in all the schools. And I see I'm looking at the, the column to the, the most right, which is the remaining budget available.  And I see in all schools there is money available in regular not money available, but there is excess money that it doesn't look like we're going to have to use. And that is on purpose to cover, past variances. Okay. So so even so it looks like our plan is working in the sense of we have tried to save money on regular education.  And that interfaces with the report earlier that  while we have had to cut back on staffing, we are still able to address the educational needs of the students. Another area that I was looking at was special ed salaries.  And I see. And special ed salaries are, located throughout the budget. I see that special ed salaries  are have  are have 145,000 left in the budget for them.  However contracted services  are a -701,000. Yes. I mean and so to me I'm interpreting that is we haven't been able to hire staff and we've had to use contracted services that are more expensive. It's differential in those two numbers is almost $500,000, and it's more costly to use contracted services. Am I understanding that correctly?
NEXT> Matt Angell: Yes.

[16982-237] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: be to the good 175,000, but private in-state is in the whole 252,000. So it seems like Paris, we we don't have the special ed in Paris, and we've had to go to private in-state placements to compensate for that. Is that a fair understanding?
TEXT> I don't think it's, I don't think it's because of the lack of Paris. I think it's, some of those kids that went off into private placement. They needed to.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay.

[16982-301] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: to say statistics and algebraic thinking. Looking through the requirements. It fits naturally into algebra two one. One.. And but. Thank you. And then U.S. and Hampshire history and Constitution is split between civics and the courses that we have already, which is us. Us.
TEXT> Right. It's all it's all there. There needs to be some additions. To some of the course work, but nothing major. We do have special ed courses, math skills, structured English. And we made sure that as you go through those courses, you will also get those same credits. So it's really about pathways. All right. Making sure that as you go through, the pathways are there for all of our students. Now also heavily hinted at, if not said exclusively, is the need to walk away from that Carnegie unit and that see time. All right. So that you got a year course you're going to get one credit for that.  That is not a necessity. Right. To define that a little better, you're really looking at the competencies. You're looking at the rigor. So you have and I think a good example is civics which is a one credit course now but still happy here. Okay. Which is completely fine. And that works out for us because the rigor of that is that you have to, as part of a graduation requirement, have to pass a naturalization test, which is now through the tide portal, which is the same portal that we do all of the, standardized testing through.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: It's pretty rigorous. Okay. So those are the credit changes. What we have done, and we called around to many principals and had some late night conversations with them. Ask

[16982-303] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: test to graduate and they can take it as many times as they want if you teach it to them. Freshman year, they've got four years to pass that test. Okay. It just we're trying to be as thoughtful and forward sinking as we can.
TEXT> I think that we also took lab bio and, into the physical science and the swapped them into the physical science was year. A couple years ago was the freshman course. Yeah, we put it back there. Many high schools in the States. That's where it was. I'm the school in Connecticut. I took a freshman year. I did okay. And our science teachers really thought that it belonged there and would do better for our teacher, for our students. We also have an introduction of a foundations. Science class.  A lot of our students are struggling as they come through. We're going to try this class together. Be able to provide a little bit more support and start freshmen out on a good food. Just double check. I think that is all the major changes, right? I give you the general idea and the driving force behind it and all those things in there. If you have any questions, I'd love to call. I'm not done. I'm not done. I. It's even a pretty color. I don't know how. So  with Missus Harrington. So now all of the early college for the CT programs, if you complete coursework and you complete a program, you're eligible for college credit for that, which is absolutely amazing. And then also, they're working on work based learning, which allows students to learn outside. Outside of these walls. Right. And apply what they're learning on the job and actually make some meaningful knowledge.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: All tech programs, if you're a level two, you get at least nine college credits for free in every one of the key programs. So we have an agreement early

[16982-348] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: I think that was the name. Or it might have been a name change. Okay.
TEXT> And my other question was, does printmaking integrate with what's happening at the tech center  with that wonderful machine that the kids now have there?
NEXT> Michael Herrington: It does not. Well come on. I will I will say.

[16982-381] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Need to do this. I mean, because.
TEXT> Originally this was going to be the draft presented to you. Tonight. And then, next the vote would be your next meeting. Right? The first meeting in December gives us a chance to  meet and talk and vet some things. Like I said, one of the challenges with a complete and total rewrite is little things can get dropped, which is why I really appreciate the time to come present it. Have you guys thoughtfully go through it, come back, talk to us, and have something that, frankly, our students deserve. Right, right.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Another pair of eyes. My copy did not have the appendix at the end that you mentioned.

[16982-447] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: It was fun. Next item on the agenda is. Any presentation or a request from Miss Kennedy related to truant officer hybrid position.
TEXT> Okay, so  thank you. We are looking to bring back a position that unfortunately was rift. And I understand financially where things were happening. But at the same time it's it's at a cost to us as a district to. So this position is really helpful. It'll go over the job description in a minute, but it helps to bring in the average daily membership in attendance. And so every day a student is not in attendance. It is actually affecting our adequacy aid. It's affecting our students education obviously. And it's just, you know, making more work for folks that need to be, you know, keep reaching and things like that too. And so we want the students to get as much as they can out of an education. There are barriers many times. And that sometimes that's something that we're working on is like, what is it that is, it's not always foreseeable. Things that are happening. And so just some of the job descriptions that are happening. So this role, the officer monitor and track student attendance and tardiness across the district. They conduct home visits, meet with students and parents and guardians of chronically absent students, and really gets to the root cause and what's going on and then providing support.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: That's the bigger part of it. And so they collaborate with administrators, teachers, counselors, social workers to identify those barriers and then to figure out what we can do to

[16982-448] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: So this role, the officer monitor and track student attendance and tardiness across the district. They conduct home visits, meet with students and parents and guardians of chronically absent students, and really gets to the root cause and what's going on and then providing support.
TEXT> That's the bigger part of it. And so they collaborate with administrators, teachers, counselors, social workers to identify those barriers and then to figure out what we can do to try and eliminate the barriers and then work together with partnerships. They develop an insulin and implement attendance improvement plans. So similar for students who need behavior. Students who are in an attendance issues will have an attendance improvement plan. And then we'll work on how to make sure that they're attending more frequently. They serve as a liaison between the schools, the families, community resources, sometimes in court as well. They maintain records and documentation of all attendance related interventions, communications and even outcomes. What's happening? They do testify in court proceedings related to attendance and truancy. They're staying up to date on laws and regulations and best practices in relation to attendance and truancy, and participating in professional development areas. And it also does some some professional development to folks as well. And just explaining what's happening, why these steps are important. And so some of the requirements are 2 to 3 years of experience working with youth, families and community organizations, strong communication skills, problem solving skills, proficient and data tracking, analysis and reporting knowledge that can be local community resources and social services.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Valid driver's license. There's a possibility of driving some folks and things, and just reliable transportation and just familiarity with the laws regarding truancy and attendance policies. So we do

[16982-487] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Miss Hawkins.
TEXT> I just wanted to indicate that there is research that if students start in an early age with the habit of coming to school, understanding the importance of school and breaking a model that might be in the home that, well, you know, you're not going to school today. A person who has the skills to get to go into the home, work with the family. Have the child come to school.  Prevents all of those additional programs down the road when those children are older.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I personally I think we'd be better served climbing someone like a guidance counselor back to work. That would be in the school itself. But that's just my opinion. I

[16982-489] Scott Maple | Former Community Attendance/Truant Officer, Claremont School District  | 2025-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: school itself. But that's just my opinion. I mean, I could if I could interject, Mr. Sprague, thank you. So my name is Scott Maple. I'm the former community attendance officer. And I came here tonight because I figured that you probably have some questions.
TEXT> When I started that position back in March, March throughout until my position was done away with, I made 400 home visits. I had almost 100 students on my truancy list, and that was throughout the school district. So my job as a truancy officer, I took it upon myself to go to those homes, talk with students and parents to figure out why they weren't in school. And I had students from Dessner and I had students from Maple Avenue. I had students from bluff, students from the high school.  And the one common factor why people weren't coming where the kids weren't coming to school was because during Covid, they were made to work from home. So a lot of them missed out on social interaction. And when they came back to school, they found that the environment had changed. And it had changed so much that these kids were afraid to come to school. So that's was the common denominator of all the children that I've talked to, all the students, the young adults from the elementary schools all the way to high school. So out of the 400 home visits and 98 students that I had, 94 of them returned to school at in one  way or form.
NEXT> Scott Maple: Working with administration, which was phenomenal. If we had to change some schedules around, we did that. So that really helps. So 94 out of 98 returned to school, and

[16982-490] Scott Maple | Former Community Attendance/Truant Officer, Claremont School District  | 2025-11-19
PREV> Scott Maple: that I've talked to, all the students, the young adults from the elementary schools all the way to high school. So out of the 400 home visits and 98 students that I had, 94 of them returned to school at in one way or form.
TEXT> Working with administration, which was  phenomenal. If we had to change some schedules around, we did that. So that really helps. So 94 out of 98 returned to school, and I also worked throughout the summer to have that continuity, to have that fluidity. So those kids felt that somebody wasn't abandoning them. When school got out for the summer. So I took it upon myself. To, to make those home visits throughout the summer. Truancy is is is is big, throughout the country and certain reasons why. But my background is in law enforcement. I've got over 20 years as a law enforcement officer, school resource officer. I've also worked for the adult Department of Corrections in the state of North Carolina. And what I found working as a case manager  and a correctional officer is you can trace. Them as an adult. You can trace it all the way back to their education, a portion a good part of why they're in prison is because they didn't have the opportunity that education. They didn't have somebody to help them along the way to make sure that they stayed in school. So I found that out, you know, again, as a law enforcement officer, but, you know, in five months, 400 home visits, 98 students, 94 then returning back to school.
NEXT> Scott Maple: With the help of administration, I think that is a big deal. I think you do need the truancy position or community attendance officer position, because I've heard since I've

[16982-491] Scott Maple | Former Community Attendance/Truant Officer, Claremont School District  | 2025-11-19
PREV> Scott Maple: somebody to help them along the way to make sure that they stayed in school. So I found that out, you know, again, as a law enforcement officer, but, you know, in five months, 400 home visits, 98 students, 94 then returning back to school.
TEXT> With the help of administration, I think that is a big deal. I think you do need the truancy position or community attendance officer position, because I've heard since I've been out that, you know, what's been asked of social workers and things like that. They don't want to do the home visits. I'm not afraid to do the home visits. I'm not afraid to go in and talk to these students. And I talk to them at great length. I talk to them about their education and what they want to do and what they want to be. And I also get to talk with their parents. So I am that bridge between the student, the parent and administration. And I think that's been a big help. And if you ask any of the administrators that we all worked well together, and it's not just me, it's the administrators in the school. It's the it's the ones that take the attendance in the morning. You know, my time as a truancy officer. I visited every school every day to make sure if they had somebody that was on their radar, that could be a potential truancy problem. And I would make that home visit. I would catch them early to let them know that, yes, attendance is important and this is what could happen to you. You know, education fallen by the wayside. So it is a very important position.
NEXT> Scott Maple: And I'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have.

[16982-493] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Scott Maple: And I'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have.
TEXT> I could just add on to the middle school. I mean, Mr. Maple and I had met over the summer when I first came out as a principal, and just eagerly looking forward to all the plans. He already started working with our summer school program and our students in there. And then there were some students we had to file a change. A child in need of support. And it's really affecting because of attendance. And there's a lot of students that are right now in need of more support. And just because, you know, the positions that have been ripped and things, even just in the clerical part of it, we are not even to maintain the data as much as we want to right now. And so letters are supposed to be going home, and I know at the middle school, just with transitions and things, those all haven't even gone home. So it's not even as accurate as it could be. But I know Mary Ellen, the plant who's at the front office as constantly students that are coming in at 815 school starts at 735.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: You know, you know, it's only 40 minutes here. And people are like, oh, it's really impacting education. It's really impacting the day to day work and things. And it's

[16982-499] Scott Maple | Former Community Attendance/Truant Officer, Claremont School District  | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Doctor Harrington.
TEXT> And I've also worked with juvenile justice, probation and parole. I've been to court hearings representing the school and being able to talk with the judge about those kids that are on the border of possibly going to jail, juvenile detention. But, you know, some of the programs, the Fly Academy and some of these other programs are great, add ons to the kids that can't sit in a regular classroom environment because of that anxiety and depression is because, you know, again, they were made to be they were they were made to sit at home for  a year or so. And now we're trying to get them back into the school and, and just taking the time to talk with them. You know, I can count, you know, at least 5 or 6 students that, that I think I made great strides with. And one of them was one that Jess McLeod was talking about, who just shuts down to everybody. And I was able to make that that connection with her.  And, you know, at least get her through the front doors onto, onto a better path than what she was on so that she gets that education.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So I just want to say a couple words for Scott. And just kind of the reality of the situation. Without a truancy. And I'm actually just going to talk

[16982-550] Scott Maple | Former Community Attendance/Truant Officer, Claremont School District  | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
TEXT> If I could just add something with the, with the in the effect of documentation. So there is a form that was given to me that in every day I made a home visit. And I'm not sure if Miss Kennedy has access to that now, but, it was a form that I'd fill out, who I contacted, who I made contact with, or who I made contact with. What was the, you know, the conversation if I made contact with a parent and then that would be, sent to a spreadsheet. And that's how I tracked my daily, progress.  So that's how I was able to. I remembered all those those numbers at 400. And I drove over 700 miles to make those home visits. You know, throughout those five months. But, I do feel I did fill out that form. It was transferred to, a document that the superintendent and whoever wanted access to that. So I did track my progress mileage that I drove things like that. So that is, and then throughout the summer. Again, just  to keep an eye on those students that I had on my truancy list to make sure that they were doing okay. And, to make sure that they were going to be in school and school started back up.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We've we've heard nothing about anything negative about your work ethic. Everybody has said nothing but glowing things about you. I think the only objection was to the position as

[16982-601] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: One is for remote learning for snow days, which Claremont does not have, but also for alternative learning programs, which we do have, and it provides for rescinding permission of if progress is not being made for students who are working remotely in these programs.
TEXT> The next one is policy JLP, which is a brand new policy. It's in response to RSA 18611. It's basically a will not policy in regard to  parental involvement, unless the child might be subject to abuse or neglect. KFD is the use and location of a d,  and it's also in response to legislation. And it allows nurses or has nurses provide CPR training and how to use EDS. They maintain, they keep records, they register them. And there is one statement that was duplicated. Number five, we eliminated that duplication. And I believe that the nurses  already do. A lot of this  was just putting the policy in place. The next policy is BAA, which is board member of. It was completely revised by the New Hampshire School Board Association in 2025. And basically the most important statement in there is that no board member has power of authority to act or speak on behalf of the board or the district, unless given that permission by the board. The next one is BCA,  which is also a revision. Our policies from 2006. School board member ethics. There are 14 statements about school board members expectations, roles, and responsibilities to provide and improve public education.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Also, our current policy has BCA, R, which is a document that school board members are supposed to sign, that we have acknowledged our school board ethics policy. I don't

[16982-659] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Right. And again, it's the way it's being viewed by the CDC and the fact that it says may remain in class. It does not say will is. The other piece that came up discussion.
TEXT> I'll give a little context to this, because I was on the board when the policy was changed to the original policy, and we actually had a board member who ran for the board because of this policy. Like the reason he got elected was this policy,  like flat out because what happened was, is that there were rampant outbreaks of lice in the school and kids were not being sent home and they were not being treated. And so the rest of the class parents were having to assume the financial responsibility for repeatedly having to do the treatment for their kids that were being reinfected by the kids that weren't being taken out of class.  And, So it's. It was a collective punishment for an individual, you know, for an individual's parents not providing the treatment for that student.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: If I can address.

[16982-662] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: That, and it was the CDC guidance at the time was exactly what it is today. Was that May. So the board chose to remove the and make it a will not. So that was a, modification that the board made against CDC guidance.
TEXT> At the time and the nurses. But but to to clarify the piece about the chronic conditions. There is a statement in here. Chronic cases will result in dismissal from school until treatment has begun.  And or a referral to the child's primary care provider. So it's it's I've been in the shoes of the, of the principal who's dealing with this, and it's a very touchy I shouldn't use the word touchy situation, but the nurses are asking that we follow CDC guidelines. The board may vote not to do that. We're just telling you the work that we've done, the discussion we've had there is there was a discussion about chronic cases, and that will not be allowed. Children will not be allowed to return if they're not being treated. And then there was a discussion about providing the treatment and how does that work. So it's something the board has to vote on one way or another, or leave it the way it is. I that's up to the board as a whole.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I would leave it as it is.

[16982-673] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: What's chronic.
TEXT> If they come back and have head lice again? So once I believe that is continued attendance of the child and school with an active. So one day of attendance when the child is, you know, could be checked and has a visible active infestation is defined as chronic.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Anybody else have a comment? All in favor of adopting the policy as amended. Say I or raise your hand I.

[16982-682] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: One abstention. Policy warming as is.
TEXT> Okay. The next policy was JLP parental notification and involvement in student welfare. Let me pull that one up. All right. So I'll make a motion and then we have a discussion. Is that okay to do? Yeah. All right. I move that we accept the recommendation of the policy subcommittee and adopt a policy. JLP parental notification of an involvement in student welfare.
NEXT> Unidentified: Second. Second.

[16982-733] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (reinstated to the board 11/5/25) | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's just right.
TEXT> So the former high school principal is sitting here, and he thinks  of the kid who takes that off the wall and zaps people within, say, well, the policy says that I can be used by anybody. So I would I would suggest saying used by anyone in an emergency situation.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah. Change the.

[16982-750] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Unidentified: That was. Gosh, I'm so tired.
TEXT> So I, I just want a clarification because this is something we've always struggled with as a board is the second to last paragraph with. So we're essentially saying that nobody has the power or authority to speak on behalf of the board, blah, blah, blah, blah. But then the last paragraph is, but  those wishing to do that, you know, can do it, as long as they say it's only their their opinion.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: You're speaking as a, as a citizen.

[16982-766] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: And so, you know, I, I just think that from my perspective, as long as you make clear who you are when you're posting and you're not putting things on the the confidential. Capacity, right.
TEXT> As long as you indicate you're not speaking on behalf of the board.
NEXT> Unidentified: Correct.

[17017-39] Unidentified public commenter | Citizen speaker, Ward 2 (no self-ID captured on the recording); retire | 2025-12-03
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: the middle school, and they assist with Stem at the high school. That's not an all inclusive list. The way I see it, we have the volunteers, just not someone available to manage and run it. I have a great deal of project management skills.
TEXT> I'm lean Six Sigma trained or in my yellow belt to VA, and during my time as the Administrative Officer in radiology, I provided coordination, direction, policy interpretation, evaluation and took care of a budget in excess of $1 million for non personnel costs. On behalf of the Chief of Radiology, I'm happy to draft a job description, meet interview with anyone, provide references, whatever it takes. And for those at home or here worried about the legal ease of this being a volunteer role, I say we ignore the noise and get to work. And finally, my wife and I are willing to pony up the cost of the of the fingerprints and background checks for the first five individuals that want to be part of this.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If you want to contact me, I can either put this on the agenda and also direct you to a citizen advisory, portion of our bylaws so we can perhaps

[17017-43] Michelle Beaton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; self-ID rendered by ASR as 'Mi | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there anyone else who would like to come up and speak?
TEXT> Hello, Michelle. Be in Ward two.  I am talking I'm here to talk about the half year of science and social studies that's currently being offered at the middle school.  I did email out to the board, and my understanding is that the policy is that  Miss Whitney is the one who responds. And I'm curious if collectively you all discuss the response to that, or if that is just Miss Whitney providing her opinion back to me on what she feels is appropriate for this situation. I'm going to run here later on tonight that this follows an editor 306 standards.  What I'm reading from Ed 306 is that the state has put learning time on the local level. So all of you, in determining what our students need for learning to progress in,  these fields of study. And I strongly feel that we should be looking at  at 306 as a minimum, not as what we're striving for, for the education of our students. I also want to speak to preschool. I think that I'm going to see that in agenda, that we're pushing this out until January or February. My understanding,  I watched the board meeting in June when  a previous director, a special ed, laid all out for you that if a preschool team determines that a child requires preschools placement to achieve their academic goals, then that is what we build into their program.
NEXT> Michelle Beaton: We currently have 15 students in our district who are not receiving their placement in a preschool program. If we're looking to set these children up for success, we would

[17017-44] Michelle Beaton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; self-ID rendered by ASR as 'Mi | 2025-12-03
PREV> Michelle Beaton: I watched the board meeting in June when a previous director, a special ed, laid all out for you that if a preschool team determines that a child requires preschools placement to achieve their academic goals, then that is what we build into their program.
TEXT> We currently have 15 students in our district who are not receiving their  placement in a preschool program. If we're looking to set these children up for success, we would not be pushing this out further. You'd be putting this on the agenda so you could have it in our budget for next year.  Lastly, I also have a question about the superintendent search committee, and I'm wondering if that's something that's going to be including parents and community members and teachers. As if we value education. I'm also hearing some under the wiring works that perhaps we're looking at hiring an executive officer next year on our school district, rather than someone who has a background in education. I do feel concerned that, again, we're not putting our students best interests forward if we're following these these models of looking at business administrator people with business degrees and following the minimum standards in our school district. Thanks.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there anyone else that would like to come up to speak?

[17017-47] Greg Adams | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified); Claremont Cares | 2025-12-03
PREV> Greg Adams: lack for some of the other areas. Also, secondly, for new supplies, we're actively collecting essential supplies for the classroom and beyond to ensure that every student has the basic tools that they need to succeed in the classroom, regardless of their family's economic situation.
TEXT> We understand that accepting donations and integrating them in  effectively requires careful coordination. To this end, we have already reached out to the principles of the local grade schools to formalize our partnership,  and we're respectfully asking them to confirm their acceptance of the donations at the time when it occurs,  to provide guidance on their most pressing needs, so that the resources that we collect are allocated precisely where they will have the greatest impact. And  thirdly, to coordinate  the secure and efficient logistics of the physical delivery of the supplies themselves.  I know that we've already had  discussions with one of the  great schools, and we're actively working with the  getting hold of the principal of the second one.  This initiative is a reflection of the core belief held by Claremont Cares, that our community thrives when we invest in our youth and work cooperatively. We are committed to making this a success and ensuring that those resources flow directly into the schools and the classrooms.  We look forward to partnering with the community as we work together to strengthen the educational foundation of Claremont. Thank you for your time and your dedication to the students.  Keith and I will be  welcome to any questions that anybody else may have about the organization or the drive after the scoreboard moving here today.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else from the community would would like to come up and speak, seeing no one from the community. We're going to close citizens

[17017-110] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (merged cluster: Madden with Sprague; per-segment  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: the hard place you're in as a board. If you have to come back and say, I'm sorry, we can't do that, that is a decision, you know, to the board as my job, as the principal to tell you what I think is valuable.
TEXT> If the kids Martin's up in the second semester of the sophomore year, you can go online and take a village scores for free.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: It doesn't work for every student, though.

[17017-111] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff (uncertain — introduced by Principal Herring | 2025-12-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: If the kids Martin's up in the second semester of the sophomore year, you can go online and take a village scores for free.
TEXT> It doesn't work for every student, though.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: It doesn't.

[17017-113] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff (uncertain — introduced by Principal Herring | 2025-12-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: It doesn't.
TEXT> One that doesn't work for every student. Summer schools.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Nothing works for every student.

[17017-114] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (merged cluster: Madden with Sprague; per-segment  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Mimi Rhines: One that doesn't work for every student. Summer schools.
TEXT> Nothing works for every student.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So what I'll say, Mr. Madden, is in a situation that we're both thinking of it. It worked very well, and I think it took a toll on the parent

[17017-116] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (merged cluster: Madden with Sprague; per-segment  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: So what I'll say, Mr. Madden, is in a situation that we're both thinking of it. It worked very well, and I think it took a toll on the parent in that.
TEXT> And it did. But it also took a toll on the student. And I'm an equal opportunity pain. The ass parents should be pushing this too, not just  you and me and the other teachers. Everybody's got to be held accountable.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: There are and I come from. I come from a family whose father did not have the ability to help me through high school. And you have the ability to

[17017-154] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: We'll have you give your presentation and then I'll have Miss Kennedy speak to it. And then we'll have our discussion and and vote on it. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. Thank you for having me to talk about monkey.  This is an important tool being used by our technology program at the elementary schools. I'm here tonight to ask for your approval to purchase the licenses for Code Monkey, a curriculum resource currently being used in grades K through five across both of our elementary schools. But before we discuss the software costs or even the curriculum itself,  I want to talk about our people. Specifically. I want to take a moment to recognize a group of educators who are the unsung heroes of our elementary schools, and that would be our unified art teachers. These are art, music, physical education, and library specialist. They are experts in their respective fields, but in our district, they wear a second, equally heavy hat for one hour once a week. Our dedicated UA teachers step aside  outside of their primary specialty to ensure that our students receive technology instruction. This has been happening for over ten years in this district with little recognition of their challenges, and I want us to really sit with the weight of their contribution. If our UA teachers did not step up to do this, if they decided to stick strictly to the subjects they are trained in, our students would not receive any formal technology lessons for the first six years of their public education in Claremont.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: Think about that from kindergarten through fifth grade, half of their entire academic career with us, they would have zero formal instruction on how to use a keyboard, how to

[17017-156] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: list of links for students to access. They were searching for free typing games or coding activities on the open web. In my audit of these resources, I found that it had become a graveyard for materials that were out of date, broken or not.
TEXT> In compliance with data governance  laws, both state and federal level. This was not any fault of their own. Technology curriculum and legal obligations was not their realm of expertise. They were doing the best to bring technology education to our elementary schools. They told me they felt like they were babysitting for an hour. They felt insecure because technology isn't their primary domain, and they were spending hours they didn't have trying to find lessons that might work, only to find the materials from the Google site didn't always work as expected, but the problem went deeper than just broken links. It was a matter of compliance and safety. This brings me to the critical point.  A piece of legislation in New Hampshire called New Hampshire House Bill 1612. As you know, HB 1612 is a law that governs student data privacy, privacy and mandates that every single piece of software we put in front of a student must meet strict data governance standards. We are required to know exactly what data is being collected, where it is stored, who has access to it, and we must ensure it is not being sold or used for marketing. When I audited the free resources our teachers have been forced to use, I found that it proximately 80% of them were non-compliant. We were directing our students to free websites that were likely tracking their clicks, collecting their data, or displaying targeted advertisements.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: In a world of technology, if the product is free, usually the user is the product. By failing to provide a paid, vetted curriculum, we were inadvertently exposing our district

[17017-157] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: marketing. When I audited the free resources our teachers have been forced to use, I found that it proximately 80% of them were non-compliant. We were directing our students to free websites that were likely tracking their clicks, collecting their data, or displaying targeted advertisements.
TEXT> In a world of technology, if the product is free, usually the user is the product. By failing to provide a paid, vetted curriculum, we were inadvertently exposing our district to significant legal liability and more importantly, exposing our students data to third party vendors with zero accountability. This is the definition of unmasked risk. We needed to fix this immediately. That's why in January 2025, we launched the Code Monkey Pilot. The pilot was paid for by title for grant money. Code monkey is not just a game, it is a turnkey, comprehensive curriculum platform. But most importantly for this board, it is a walled garden. A walled garden gives us complete control over what students see and where they can navigate. The curriculum contains a safe and monitored environment. It is fully compliant. Code monkey adheres to the strictest standards of student privacy, including Coppa, and it aligns perfectly with the mandates of N.H. House Bill 1612. When a student logs in, they are safe and free. Private environment. We own the data. We control the access. The risk of liability drops to near zero.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: It supports our teachers. This program was built for the exact situation we are in. It allows a teacher who might be technophobe or simply untrained in computer science to

[17017-158] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: of student privacy, including Coppa, and it aligns perfectly with the mandates of N.H. House Bill 1612. When a student logs in, they are safe and free. Private environment. We own the data. We control the access. The risk of liability drops to near zero.
TEXT> It supports our teachers. This program was built for the exact situation we are in. It allows a teacher who might be technophobe or simply untrained in computer science to facilitate a high level lesson with confidence. It comes with lesson plans, offline activities, and automatic grading. It updates itself. Are art and music teachers no longer have to spend limited planning time reading privacy policies to see if a website is still safe to use. It standardizes instruction. Before January, a third grader at one school might be learning to type, while a third grader in another school was just playing games. Now we have horizontal and vertical alignment. We know exactly what skills are being taught in every grade, ensuring that when they hit middle school, every student is starting from the same foundation. I've talked a lot about our amazing UA teachers and about our obligations to secure, vetted and  compliant applications. Now, I want to pivot for a moment to the impact on the students. They are the center of all the decisions we make around curriculum. Because the word code is in a name, many often focus on the coding part, the logic, the math, and future jobs. And those are real. But there is a softer, more urgent skill being taught here, and that's digital citizenship.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: Think about how we handle behavior in our schools. We teach children how to be good citizens on the playground. We teach them how to be respectful in the hallways.

[17017-159] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: we make around curriculum. Because the word code is in a name, many often focus on the coding part, the logic, the math, and future jobs. And those are real. But there is a softer, more urgent skill being taught here, and that's digital citizenship.
TEXT> Think about how we handle behavior in our schools. We teach children how to be good citizens on the playground. We teach them how to be respectful in the hallways. We teach them how to resolve conflict in the classroom. In all of those spaces, they are supervised. There is a teacher, a para, or an administrator watching, guiding and correcting them. But when it comes to their digital lives, our children are often alone. They are navigating the internet, social platforms and digital dilemmas in their bedrooms or on their phones, often without an adult standing over their shoulder. They are faced with choices about privacy, cyber bullying and ethical behavior is our duty and moral obligation to support our students on how to behave online, the same way we support them on how to behave in person. We cannot just hand them a Chromebook and say, here you go. Code monkey provides the framework for these conversations. It teaches them that there are humans behind the screens. It teaches them about digital footprints. If we do not fund this curriculum, we are effectively removing the only formal time in their school week. Dedicated discussing online safety and ethics.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: Finally, I want to address the results. We started this in January 2025 and I just day received the latest performance report. The numbers are not just good, they're exceptional.

[17017-160] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: framework for these conversations. It teaches them that there are humans behind the screens. It teaches them about digital footprints. If we do not fund this curriculum, we are effectively removing the only formal time in their school week. Dedicated discussing online safety and ethics.
TEXT> Finally, I want to address the results. We started this in January 2025 and I just day received the latest performance report. The numbers are not just good, they're exceptional. First, let's talk about the value for the money. We purchased 600 licenses as of this month. This moment today, 599 of those 600 seats are filled. That is 99.8% utilization rate. We are not wasting a single dollar on unused software. Second, let's look at engagement code. Monkey compared us to other districts of similar size across the United States. Those districts districts are seeing an average of 239 students logging in per month. In our district, we have more than double that engagement, with over 50% of our roster students consistently, actively logging on in terms of work completed. Our students are solving coding exercises at a rate classified as very high. We just passed 15,000 exercises for this school year. In what, the three months we've been in school, compared to the peer average of around 3000 exercises in the United States. Third, let's look at skill acquisition. Remember, these are elementary students, many of whom have never had formal keyboarding lessons before and for this generation, brought up on touch screens.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: The first time they see a keyboard is when we put it in front of them. As of December 3rd today, our students are averaging 83% accuracy on this program

[17017-161] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: in school, compared to the peer average of around 3000 exercises in the United States. Third, let's look at skill acquisition. Remember, these are elementary students, many of whom have never had formal keyboarding lessons before and for this generation, brought up on touch screens.
TEXT> The first time they see a keyboard is when we put it in front of them. As of December 3rd today, our students are averaging 83% accuracy on this program on their typing skills. They are currently averaging a speed of eight words per minute. This is a fantastic baseline for beginners, and it puts us well on track for high proficiency by the end of the school year. Fourth, I want to address a critical point regarding standardized testing. Our students take high state and national tests on computers. The student does not have foundational keyboarding skills or digital literacy. They struggle with the machine, not the material. We risk masking a student's true ability in reading or mask simply because they cannot navigate the testing platform. Universal design for learning,  also known as UDL, reminds us that we must remove barriers so our students can really show us what they know. Code monkey is helping us move toward the goal of removing the technology barrier so our students can shine a light on the knowledge, instead of fighting to navigate their way through the test. Code monkey ensures every student, regardless of which school they attend, receives consistent, rigorous training in these foundational skills. It levels the playing field to close. I want to be clear about where we stand.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: This program was vetted last spring by the title for Committee, comprising parents, teachers, community members, and admin. The plan was always to continue it. The only thing that has

[17017-162] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: instead of fighting to navigate their way through the test. Code monkey ensures every student, regardless of which school they attend, receives consistent, rigorous training in these foundational skills. It levels the playing field to close. I want to be clear about where we stand.
TEXT> This program was vetted last spring by the title for Committee, comprising parents, teachers, community members, and admin. The plan was always to continue it. The only thing that has changed is the funding source. When we were faced with the financial crisis, the committee crumbled and unfortunately, this programs grant funding. Funding crumbled in the wake of that, and we are facing the possibility of it ending in less than two weeks when our grant funded licenses are set to expire. If we do not move this into the operational budget, we are forcing our UA teachers back to the Wild West of unfettered, non-compliant websites. We would be taking a step backward in safety, a step backward in data privacy, and a step backward in student equity. We have the teachers who are willing to do the work. We have the students who are eager to learn. We just need to continue with the tool. I ask for your support in approving the purchase of Code Monkey licenses so we can keep our students safe, compliant, and prepared for the future. And I'm open to any questions you may have.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague.

[17017-199] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Revisit what the essay will look like.
TEXT> But. And then, I think every year we should look at stuff. Anyway, we looked at the time out of a few weeks ago wasn't going please. But it's useful to look at it when I'm looking at this number in this discussion. It's $3,500 and 7000 for 12 months. We I don't mean to gripe about this, but we paid somebody for communications almost $5,000 last month. This is a no brainer to me. If we want to relook at,  you know, what's going to be best for kids to learn on computers going forward. We can have that conversation. But this is if we don't approve this tonight and we lose it and we don't have an alternative in place, it seems like a total,  you know, foolhardy thing to do, especially when we're spending 4500 on a communications person. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Hawkins, and.

[17017-205] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: It was a group of teachers trying to put together something, but it wasn't a formalized scope and sequence curriculum.
TEXT> So while this will accommodate our students needs for coding and for keyboarding.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: In digital citizenship.

[17017-212] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: It sounds like you've offered a lot of opportunity and resources to our teachers, so thank you for that.
TEXT> Yeah, I've tried to put together a lot of choices. So it Code monkey is like the main one. But we do a 20 2020 split. So it's 20 minutes of typing and then 20 minutes of a lesson. So it can be a teacher led lesson. It can be one that co monkey provides. Could be one from  Common Sense Media's digital citizenship program which we don't need to pay for. It's completely vetted and it's safe  and it's all offline. So the kids are not logging into it. And then 20 minutes of coding or  more typing. Some teachers, like the kids, go back and do more typing because maybe they're still struggling. A little bit. So the coding also promotes a lot of critical thinking, computational thinking, and problem solving skills that they can transfer over into other subject areas like math.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you very much.

[17017-256] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So is he using this program?
TEXT> No, no. He has his own curriculum, but one of his one.  During discussions with him last year, he did tell me that they come to him not knowing how to type. So that was his biggest. I  asked him, what do you need them to know? So I  while I'm researching programs. What do you really need them to know to make them successful in your program and has this I really need them to know how to type. And so when I was looking at programs, typing was a priority because of testing, because it is the first time some of these students are using a keyboard, and also because the middle school teacher says, I really need them to know how to type. And at the high school level, they need them to be able to type papers and etc. to. So typing is just a foundational skill we need to teach like we do writing and reading and math,  in the 21st century.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So there is a vertical alignment issue.

[17017-258] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So there is a vertical alignment issue.
TEXT> It can't. Yeah. So and I've been so focused on getting our elementary up and running in these over the last 18 months to make sure they had a solid program. And then we can further discussion if this would be, especially if these kids are used to code Monkey as they move into the middle. School. It might be beneficial for them to continue. But right now, where they only right now the middle school has sixth graders in it that have been  exposed to Code Monkey  seventh, eighth, seventh, and eighth have not because we did not have that program and our sixth graders only had it for six. The first six, the last six months of school last year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I did see that they had a number of options. So did the teachers direct what options the kids will utilize? Because there are math options, there are game

[17017-259] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: sixth graders in it that have been exposed to Code Monkey seventh, eighth, seventh, and eighth have not because we did not have that program and our sixth graders only had it for six. The first six, the last six months of school last year.
TEXT> So I did see that they had a number of options. So did the teachers direct what options the kids will utilize? Because there are math options, there are game options, there are keyboarding options, and so.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: On the back end, I do the assigning to make sure that we're getting a consistency. And the students, they are given 20 minutes of typing. Some students might get

[17017-260] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So I did see that they had a number of options. So did the teachers direct what options the kids will utilize? Because there are math options, there are game options, there are keyboarding options, and so.
TEXT> On the back end, I do the assigning to make sure that we're getting a consistency. And the students, they are given 20 minutes of typing. Some students might get half a lesson done in that 20 minutes. Some students might get three lessons. Then they all have different skill sets. So it gives them the option to move at their pace during that 20 minutes, and then they're given 20 minutes of time to do a lesson. It can be a digital citizenship lesson from Common Sense Media. It could be an offline,  code.org lesson that we call them unplugged activities could be something from the objects library, or it could even be a lesson provided by Code Monkey.  And then the last 20 minutes are like a flex. It's either coding or keyboarding, depending on the student's interest or need. So I have seen a huge drop in the Tracking Santa. App. Last year that was sort of their reward game. It really wasn't a good learning activity, but I haven't seen it really pop up even now in December. So I'm thinking they are certainly engaged and the numbers that I'm getting back are showing me they are highly above national average engagement, even doing,  up to this point in the school year, 100 minutes at home. So that means that it is something they are interested in.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague.

[17017-267] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: But that's true of Odyssey where as well.
TEXT> Yeah, but it's not an active use license. The license is attached to the student. When I go in the dashboard it says they're seated. Okay. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Any other discussion?

[17017-308] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (clipped into a neighbouring cluster) | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Seeing. None. Opposed. No. Abstentions. Motion passes. Thank you. Item number four is discussion about our current state assessment. Standardized assessment scores. Miss Henry, excuse me. Oh, my gosh. That. Kennedy. I don't know where that came from. Sorry. Good evening everyone. Oh. That's okay.
TEXT> So we have. Some good news and bad news in our essay scores. We've got over a little bit, and we've got some plans to talk about for what we've got. So I'm just going to start alphabetically. There filed on this. So Bluff School had been,  designated as a comprehensive support and improvement school, a CSI school,  and that is a school who has not exited their status. They remain in that status. Unfortunately, it is the lowest 5% of all New Hampshire schools for title one schools.  It still remains in that status.  And Mr. Qanat has been working hard from his follow on from where he was at before,  continuing with the state for the grant. And then it's sort of passing the torch right now. So 60% of our students from bluff  are sitting at Maple Avenue School, 40% are sitting at Disney Art school. So we do have a CSI grant that follows this. So this comprehensive support and improvement plan,  and with that grant, we're writing in some activities. We're working closely with Miss  Lewis and Mr. Blunt. And Mr. Shannon's really helping them as well.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: On what can we do to improve this. So I'm going to pass it off to them for 30s. If there's anything you want to share about updates for that

[17017-316] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: support. It was a sigh. It's it continues on. So we need to have a couple of years worth of data that supports all the work that we're doing and showing how to be exiting it. So it won't be exiting for a little bit.
TEXT> But we're using  the the support with this to make sure that our students, you know, again, those subgroups are really making great gains. We're working on some data meetings. We're discussing some other opportunities for staff,  with the you know, those  stipends or discussions for how to make sure. Again, I know stipends is a hard word right now, but through this part with with authorization, with everything else according to the CBA, and making sure that it's done the right way,  and then it's tracked and then it goes through the grant, you know. We both received. With authorization and everything else as meeting students needs.  And so there are funds that are designated to do exactly that. And  this is the one thing. And that's what just caution about the grants to make sure that there's compliance for that.  And what happens and unfortunately has happened in the past is some of the grant is written, people are assuming it's all approved. And then something changes, and then the local funds have to assume the money from that because it doesn't meet the compliance for the grant. And that's what we're making sure it's not happening again.  And so some of it is also the CBA language around the, our the amount of money per hour or things like that, that staff are in the CBA and it specifically dictates what the staff would make as a, you know, state statement a things.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So we are still working with the the additional targeted support and improvement plan for the middle school. And, you know, looking at that. So to the good news though,

[17017-323] Melissa Lewis | Disnard Elementary School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> Melissa Lewis: other thing we did, which was not necessarily new, our staff meetings have the focus of building adding to your toolkits. And so we're firm believers. And every time we come together as a staff, our it's professional development based, we don't hold memo meetings.
TEXT> It's how do we add yet another tool to our toolkit in this one hour and a half hour and a half time that we have together? And so last year we began a book study on UDL, Universal Design for learning, which really focuses on how you plan from the get go to meet the needs of all students and give them access, removing those barriers to that tier one instruction. That's ongoing work. We are certainly not experts. We play as we go. We try one new thing at a time, and we just continue to add  to our toolkits. And that's again combined with all the things that Mrs. Kennedy spoke about ongoing data, meetings, looking at student data planning, tier one, tier two and tier three interventions, and best using that data to meet student needs. So we're very proud of what we did.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you.

[17017-330] Melissa Lewis | Disnard Elementary School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: I'll take it. I'll take anything.
TEXT> We if we are teaching to the standards in L.A. and math at the elementary level in science for grade five, we are teaching to the test. So if we're if we are teaching content in a way that reaches all of our learners, we are teaching to the test and we should be. The format is what gets kiddos nine times out of ten. And  writing. There's not one, kiddo. Well, I shouldn't say that. I can probably count on one hand the number of kiddos that say, oh good, I get to do a lengthy writing task, right? And so we've got to continue to build kids stamina for writing. So hopefully we are teaching to the test if we're teaching the standards.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Could you help out Doctor Harrington and get him to teach to the test.

[17017-350] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair (clipped into a neighbouring cluster) | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: I don't think. Mr. Peterson.
TEXT> Is there any incentive or benefit to the students to do?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes.

[17017-355] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So spoiler alert.
TEXT> If I could just interject,  we also do better if we can get 95. Percent of our students. Taking the assessment. As well. We've had several families that have opted out that have not helped us as a district, because the numbers aren't helping our scores and things too. So just opting in and taking it and just doing what you're saying is try your best, do what you can. It's just help to help, you know, help us form, ways of, you know, more support and things. So,  families, if that's the best thing you can do is participate in this. It really is. And so it. Gives. Us that ongoing scores.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Get a zero.

[17017-366] Michael Herrington | Stevens High School Principal (cluster also catches board-member fragm | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: standing as well. And so it's really affecting a lot of our schools positively thanks to. So last one, Stevens. So there are targeted support and improvement plan there working on specifically students with disabilities. And so. Doctor Harrington, would you like to address any?
TEXT> Sure. We had a developed a plan.  At the end of last year,  worked with,  you know, there was a couple  informational  sessions with people at the Department of Education, worked with Mike Kosky,  targeted and again, very specific with looking at  sections  that are affected individuals with disabilities.  Specifically, you're looking at the graduation rate, which is significantly lower than our population without disabilities. So we were targeting  that,  the other issue, the other two issues, that our students with disabilities are not accessing our early college or high school and gaining college credits at the same rate other students are. So that's a ding against us.  And the other area is which is in the same vein, is that,  they're not accessing the tech center as much. Right. So you're getting a push  to have students with disabilities,  access to Tech Center, which Miss Harrington  is fantastic at.  Especially with the advertising at the high school, when you walk in and you get that giant,  picture and wrote of every student who's there, what they're taking, you know, what they want to be.  That really does get a lot of interest.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: I actually even students are like, hey, can we get stuff on that? Like asking me to put stuff on that? And then also for gaining credit for each credit.

[17017-375] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: from the administrative team. And if anybody is interested, they can contact me, and I can tell you what minutes to look at, what CCTV board meetings to watch to, to hear what the people that were boots on the ground, what their experiences were.
TEXT> And so in my mind's eye, it's instruction as our issue here. And it's not for the lack of passion on the teacher's part, it's that they're not getting the support and they're not, not getting the support to get the skills that they need to have  to execute the programs and the curriculum. And Miss Lewis can probably acknowledge whether or not we also  got Teach United to come in to support teachers and give them more skills, responsive teaching, as well  as responsive classroom as well, and also an option of letters, which is the science of reading, which is  one of our deficits words that we hadn't transitioned into the old way of the older way of reading that was actually meeting the needs of most students. And now our new Ela program does do that. And Miss Hawkins was our representative on the curriculum  committee. So I don't know if anybody else has anything to add, because I think it's important that the community knows that this is this is a real it's a real problem that our scores aren't where they are. And we've been working hard and, we're not making the traction that we are hoping. We hope that we would make,  and we're going to double down on our efforts and make student achievement has to be our number one focus  on also for the for the public. You can find a lot of data on the New Hampshire Department of Education website.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It talks about the profiles of students. And what I also wanted to spell is this myth that like poor like because we are poor community, that this is really

[17017-376] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: we would make, and we're going to double down on our efforts and make student achievement has to be our number one focus on also for the for the public. You can find a lot of data on the New Hampshire Department of Education website.
TEXT> It talks about the profiles of students. And what I also wanted to spell is this myth that like poor like because we are poor community, that this is really what's holding us back. There barriers there, but we can really overcome them. And what's really striking to me, and this has been consistent over the years, is if you go under like the the mean growth percentile, it's like how far kids. It doesn't necessarily mean mean they're meeting their benchmark, but how much growth they're achieving over a year. Our economically disadvantaged children and our kids that are not economically disadvantaged, there's no difference in growth. That's that's astounding to me. And and this is an L.A. and this is students with disabilities and students without disabilities. There's no difference. In growth.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Which is what you want.

[17017-385] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford, excuse me, Miss Hawkins. Oh.
TEXT> That's Mr.. I agree about the the plan. If we can develop a plan district wide to increase participation. I mean, you're doing it  at one location. We can do that across the locations, right? The other thing I found myself thinking was the need for professional development. Yes. And professional development can look different. It can be building based. It can be educators talking to educators. It can be bringing not necessarily not necessarily bringing people in, but taking those educators who are really good at what they're doing and spread that throughout the district. And having the intervention is we're talking about a reconfiguration which will give us that opportunity. So it's important that we keep looking at ways to help our kids do better, and they will.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Be helping our teachers do better. Correct. They're going to help our kids do better. Correct.

[17017-386] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: good at what they're doing and spread that throughout the district. And having the intervention is we're talking about a reconfiguration which will give us that opportunity. So it's important that we keep looking at ways to help our kids do better, and they will.
TEXT> Be helping our teachers do better. Correct. They're going to help our kids do better. Correct.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. And they will.

[17017-388] Melissa Lewis | Disnard Elementary School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. And they will.
TEXT> Can I make one more glove. The very first intervention that I think all principals would ask for in terms of parental support. We need the kids there. Get them on time and we need them there. Right. And, and I know all of us are facing some attendance concerns and certainly kids being out sick, family emergencies all justified, all understandable.  But we absolutely need family support in getting kids there because we can teach them when they're there. And if they're consistently tardy over time, that adds up. It might only be 15 minutes a day, but over a week it's 75 minutes and so on and so forth. So I'm really another great way that families can can support their kiddos.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you.

[17017-414] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So that what what we want to achieve is an evaluation. Yep. Go ahead Arlen.
TEXT> One of the things we did discuss also was the impact  of a procedure following this policy would have on the culture and the way the school operates currently with  privileges with with students coming in and out. And we want to make sure that we are improving but not destroying what we have in place. That's a positive for our students. So am I correct?
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Yeah, and there are. And one of the things that we discussed, and I'm going to try to articulate it well, is that this was in response to a very

[17017-423] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Mimi Rhines: them be up, because I do think that extra level is an important thing to have in schools in general these days. So I just want to say thank you for that, but please keep that in your minds as well. Thank you. Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> Are we good? Okay.  Next item on the agenda is follow ups. And, Miss Kennedy and I chatted this weekend about what the follow ups were.  Our technology director position adjacent. Bonneville has accepted the position. He is an employee within the district. Currently, he has ten years of IT experience. And Jeff Small's last day will be December 5th. Or he's already already service. And he was wonderful. And we consider him a loss. But I'm sure  Jason will step right into that position. And Jeff had nothing but glowing reports about Jason,  our student services position. Miss Paige Sarvis has accepted that position. So we now have a student services director.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Yes. Out! Off the press.

[17017-496] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Spoke about that. Spoke about. That professional development.
TEXT> So we are working on a professional development plan. So as Miss Lewis had stated the rest of the year as the half days we have one in January, we have one in March. I mean, yeah, March, April and May.  And those are building based professional development plans that those teachers would work. I mean, the principles are working on before the teachers, and then we're also at the same time building. We have a meeting coming up in a few weeks to plan for next year's professional development plan. Exactly. To address all of these areas of concern needs, teachers needs, certainly about differentiation. Just foreshadowing. I've talked about all I've talked to the bargaining units. It's all professional development for everybody. So secretaries, custodians, every position will have something planned for them for professional development. In the past typically some units have taken off that day thinking it was impacted students. But it also impacts our,  you know, our adults where they're not getting educated on what they need to do for certain systems and things, too. And so we're making sure that they have professional development as well.  And obviously everything's in accordance with CBA's, but ensuring that folks get what they need, they have differentiated plans.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so people aren't only getting the same, of course, you know, for everybody to so there'll be more come on that and we're, you know, working on a much

[17017-498] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Weather Service, and Department of Homeland Security. And so Monday afternoon, I spent quite a bit of time with them. We went over. We get the maps, we get everything else going, the projection. And it's a very well informed, very pleased with the process.
TEXT> System. And so making sure, you know, it's something I know folks are like, oh, you hate to call it early in things, but at the same time, student safety is always a paramount of ours. And making sure families have enough time to accommodate. So we were able to call it the day before yesterday. It did snow all day long. And then the impact of the snow. The timing of the snow is usually what dictates it as well. We worked with Pamela from the Transportation Department, making sure that everybody was ready. I know this morning when she had the busses out today, they did some calls to the DPW, just making sure that there was some more sanding in a few places, so hopefully. I mean, seemed I didn't hear a lot of reports. I've asked some of the principals. Everybody made it back safely, but that was what continues to happen. But I know understands that. It's like, you know, there's not a magic eight ball that I'm sitting there like you. Yes or no? Are we going to have school today or not?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so just putting it out there too. So just a quick clarification on that. And then just one more update for the student, the Superintendents Advisory Council. We're meeting

[17017-499] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Everybody made it back safely, but that was what continues to happen. But I know understands that. It's like, you know, there's not a magic eight ball that I'm sitting there like you. Yes or no? Are we going to have school today or not?
TEXT> And so just putting it out there too. So just a quick clarification on that. And then just one more update for the student, the Superintendents Advisory Council. We're meeting again on December 8th  at 530 at the Dow. We'll be reviewing the meal participation applications and supports. But I do want to just quickly thank the folks have been showing up in. Somebody had asked for clarification too. So on the superintendents advisory Council is Mr. Lewis, Elise Crossman, Jen Gagnon, Rod Beaton, Courtney Porter, Rachel Nagler, Sarah  Brandon, Teatro Colon,  Christina Bernard, Molly DeLuca, javelin, Ken Loney, Erica Kaiser. And then I also meet with the unions. And so with Tammy Yates, Alicia, Samina,  Mary Ellen the plant, Holly Brissett,  Monica Reyes, and then John Bonneville too. So there's a wide variety of constituents that are participating in these programs or supports.  And then quickly so the education system, we are making sure that we're following our CBA again. And the building principal are creating their plans to go out and to do the observation, making sure that they're using the tools that we have accessible.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And they're working on goal setting forums, and that's the next thing that we're ensuring is happening. So we did have a little bit of a setback with the bluff

[17017-500] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: supports. And then quickly so the education system, we are making sure that we're following our CBA again. And the building principal are creating their plans to go out and to do the observation, making sure that they're using the tools that we have accessible.
TEXT> And they're working on goal setting forums, and that's the next thing that we're ensuring is happening. So we did have a little bit of a setback with the bluff change.  Everything else that was happening at the beginning of year. So hopefully right after, you know, the following in the new year, we're really much more on target of where we're supposed to be for valuations, but that's we want to make sure this the staff, we know what they need for PD. They have a chance to weigh into that and look at their goals and meet their targeted goals. So that student achievement is where we need it to be.  So the organizational chart that I've shared there, so we're looking at positions specifically right now with the Dow, it is obviously down significantly.  And we're right sizing a lot of things we're talking about within the the systems for each school too. And what does the successful plan look like for the schools to meet the targeted educational needs and things? So,  this Friday, we meet with the principals again to go over the budgets and how to we. Millicent was great to help be our guinea pig for the initial organizational chart to align with what we need for tier one instruction, tier two instruction and tiers three instruction.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And that is our guiding principle for this year. And making sure that everybody's getting the right amount of instruction for setting up for next year, I should say. And

[17017-749] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-12-03
PREV> Loren Howard: even if we next meeting, which is, in my opinion, unlikely that Jim's going to be available to give us a presentation, decided that we would want to go with that. It would then be three months of deliberating what that's going to look like.
TEXT> That's also going into budget season. It just sounds this sounds like an impossibility. What that model idea we need to hear about now. But I don't think we're going to be able to do that until Matt Angel has gone in 27 and in mid 2027, and that'll be maybe a better time to actually initiate. We've got our holdovers gone. We are starting a new  now. I just think it's we need a specially at this moment someone who's going to actually lead us, not somebody who's going to stand around and collect $90,000 without a credential  in the educational office and go are looking good. BA. Right. Like, again, not to say that our superintendents have been parked. Clearly they haven't. Do we think somebody with no credentials who's getting less pay is going to be somehow better at getting like educating our children or making sure our schools have a cohesive  curriculum?
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: I don't understand what Matt has to do with it. I don't. Wait, that's what I. Don't understand. Well, it's not one person. It's a role that show him the

[17029-3] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; presiding member, Finance Subcommittee | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: actual spending over budget was significant. Number three, there were unexpected expenses during the year. This current year that we did not foresee. Sped, of course. There were some additional expenditures there. The statewide building billing. Excuse me, for additional school care costs of 868,000.
TEXT> That was a significant amount. And  health care variances.  And so the third one is this year, we have had prior year bills that we've had to pay this year that really weren't part of this year's budget, but we had to pay them in this year's money. And so to look at expenditures in this year's budget is,  is a little problematic because it's artificially high, because of having to pay last year's  items. Okay. So that sets the stage of why we can't use the current year's budget as a model going forward. There are also three considerations, at least three that I know of driving this budget process.  And I think it's important for everyone to recognize that this is our priority. These are our priorities. Number one, it's student achievement. We want to focus on student achievement. We have to get student achievement up.  The second is the student achievement. Some of it is driven by school configuration.  That has that impacts,  a school achievement. It impacts the budget. And we're looking and it also is impacted by  population models. And third, we also in the whole bunch of process.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Of course we are always sensitive to the financial impact on the property tax rate. Those are three consecutive concentric circles that we we focus on. The school configuration needs

[17029-4] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; presiding member, Finance Subcommittee | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: second is the student achievement. Some of it is driven by school configuration. That has that impacts, a school achievement. It impacts the budget. And we're looking and it also is impacted by population models. And third, we also in the whole bunch of process.
TEXT> Of course we  are always sensitive to the financial impact on the property tax rate. Those are  three consecutive concentric circles that we we focus on.  The school configuration needs a little further explanation. Declining student populations in Claremont must be considered. I know this is a really high topic and people are having a difficult time. I've talked to a number of people and I don't think they realize this and that. As soon as I'm done, it's going to give us some information, hard data about that,  about the impacts of that.  Obviously our buildings and the,  the condition of our current buildings.  We've been running on shoestring budgets for way too long, and we haven't addressed up updates to many of our buildings. And so we need to talk about that. And  we also want to see how,  how can we deliver services to students in the best way to improve their achievement. How can we utilize our staff most effectively to increase student achievement? There will be three options presented during our discussions, and I want everyone to realize that. But there will be no, we're not making any decisions here, folks.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We're just gathering data. And, we will be talking about the relative merits and drawbacks of the various models. And I'm sure that the public has thoughts and questions regarding

[17029-68] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee member (uncertain — identifie | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: I, I wanted to look at achievement and, and we're about education where you have to deliver it in a fiscally responsible way. But that is not the only determining factor for this education model.
TEXT> No, but what I am going to say is that when I was sitting at the table, that was the message that we were projecting to the communities. We recognized then, right, that this was an achievement issue. And at the time it was a resource management issue. We actually weren't going to get huge budget savings by going to that model. The the position of the board at that time was it was a real achievement issue. And that to consolidate and to align all the courses and align all the grades was in the best interests of the kids that, you know, there may be a little bit of an economic benefit, but that wasn't the primary driver. So I'm just communicating this so that we are prepared to address these concerns to the public, which I will feel, I feel are going to be similar concerns that we will hear.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So I think that's important. I do think it is a we need to move on. And I. Agree. With you. The past is.

[17029-72] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: That is a component, but it's it's not the only component. That's all I'm saying.
TEXT> I have to I have to sit on both sides of the fence. So I have to go and work on student achievement, which which I have three goals. And then I also have to work on, making the organization efficient so that we can squeeze out, right, financial resources.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Just interject on the achievement part. So we did recognize at the last board meeting the schools that have come out of exited at sea. And you know and. I

[17029-427] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee member (uncertain — identifie | 2025-12-10
PREV> Matt Angell: engineer. So this is a this is like civil mechanical. I think it's like a mechanical engineer who just specializes in fire, life safety stuff. And what he's going to do is he's going to calculate what the capacity is for the. For the team.
TEXT> Well, I understand the capacity part, but for the scheduling part. So can we move these kids around as they rotate through the classes? Do we have enough classrooms and the capacity within the schedule?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Well, I think part of that is, constructing the schedule for the nine through 12 and limiting course offerings. Yes. To free up those extra classes.

[17029-433] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee member (uncertain — identifie | 2025-12-10
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Well, in teachers too. So it could be, you know, if you're offering Spanish, is it a Spanish 7 to 12? Is it 9 to 12. Is it. So you know. What does that look like?
TEXT> And so would there be, you know, what's the what's the impact academically and what's the impact financially to the budget? Sure. Now, I know there's a benefit to having  the, you know, one of the issues that we've had in the past, particularly at the middle school, is that there haven't been opportunities for high performing kids to access courses that would have them physically, you know, physical access for them to challenge. And so there is a benefit to that,  combining of the middle and the high school is so you, the kids that are high performing. Right. They could access, they could just go as fast as they and not get bored.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And structurally right now they're doing right, which is more options. Right. Because they cannot physically get to their our schedules aren't aligned so that if they took math at

[17037-118] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; Finance Sub-Committee member | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: So so above the 78 that aren't filled. Correct. How many are really needed that we have to put currently.
TEXT> Right. And the reason I'm I wanted to focus on this is we really to your point, candy. And and the the administration's point is we're trying to focus on student achievement. And so  for me, I really want to know the what positions are like, what are we really talking about as far as what we have for human resources to provide educational services to the kids. And like if we throw this,  number of 78 positions vacant to me, if I was somebody who wasn't watching these meetings and didn't know the little dirty details, I would be thinking, right now  we need 78 more people. Yeah. Where in reality we have we've dropped down a school, reconfigured. So what do we what do we what are our actual. Vital positions? And really.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What are the most critical.

[17037-181] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; Finance Sub-Committee member | 2025-12-12
PREV> Matt Angell: Underneath special ed.
TEXT> Right. Okay. So that would be one of those student services, right. I'm going to push back.
NEXT> Matt Angell: It's in my experience that's the model for student services. Okay. Yeah. Now it's questionable whether you need to. I'm just going to say it to administrators. In the next

[17037-460] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; Finance Sub-Committee member | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: The what? The work that you've been doing with the administrator. Yes. When we're thinking of the three school models.
TEXT> I'm saying even with the for school model, like if we, no matter what model we go to, our  aim is to provide the best academic  options to align with the most achievement at a fair price to the taxpayer. And so  what? I'm afraid. I'm not afraid. What I'm hearing is that we're accepting the budgetary requests from the schools, primarily at CMS and Stevens High School, that mirror the programs that were,  offered prior to I called the tsunami event. Right. So  if we are actually going to value align ourselves to target student achievement, then we need to have our budget and our program program, programmatic offerings be aligned with those values.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Sure. We we just we just approved a program program of studies for the ice cream.

[17037-496] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; Finance Sub-Committee member | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: The the Masonic building was purchased. Correct. Correct.
TEXT> Because it was it cannot be that the right we cannot keep this program in the tech school and the tech building and the board at the time, with the support of the Citizens Advisory Group and the tech  subcommittee, requested that the board make a public motion supporting moving this program into another facility. Correct. And also a discussion occurred related to it is not in the best interest of the students that are in this type of program to be housed within a large school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Right, right, right.

[17037-543] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: Be an alternative.
TEXT> Politically, not this year. Maybe next year. But the the problem is, I, I would think that any any program related to bluff, the best thing you could do to it is to actually  give it to or rent it to a nonprofit that would offer that service for us for a fee. And so you're renting the building Safer 110,000,  but then it costs us,  you know, $200,000 to send the kids there. So then it's offsetting our, our, our costs.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But but we were the estimate we were provided was we could bring back almost 1.2 and out of district savings if we had the right.

