[10577-58] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Okay. At University of New Hampshire. There are at least five other colleges practicing in this. And what is great for this, particularly for our kids who who want to come back and present, they couldn't get it. Everything ready that we just went yesterday.
TEXT> But they like to come back and present to this and some of the other events that they're doing with the friends of Rachel and a few other things.  So that, they have the go ahead to, to attend these, these events. And it really is, what happened? Yeah. I saw it happen yesterday with some of the Colby Sawyer professors in admissions people. They actively pursue kids for admission in these  good schools. Saint Anselm's as well. Because of their involvement in efforts like these. And our students were interested in pursuing it. So it was a very positive day. This was an event two that I put out, and I'm going to put these reports on the on the website to we have a bunch of them back backlogged. The retired teachers luncheon held at least twice a year at the Tech Center for Sullivan County. Teacher, retirees, students did an amazing job putting the meal together, serving it. And they had a guest speaker on a on a topic for for the retirees. They invited me to join them. I was happy to do so and have connections.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Met with a few people about doing other things in the community that I'll speak about in a future report. And this is an event that that Donna can can

[10577-60] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: has a he's going to be going to all the elementary schools during the day and talking about his books. Bestselling books. And it's just it's a great opportunity to really expand early literacy and for a community event, you know, celebrating what we're doing.
TEXT> As you heard, you saw the kids tonight. We're really doing some amazing things out in the community. So we're we're, our students are and we're looking to have more involvement. So. And that's those are the items that I had to highlight tonight for you.
NEXT> Unidentified: So thank you. Thanks.

[10577-81] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2019-10-16
PREV> Ben Nester: we have an alternative program committee which are aware of if you want to join that, we'd be happy to have you a part of that where we're going to be looking at potentially expanding this, you know, again, with the board's approval and support.
TEXT> You know, so a lot when a lot went into developing the program, we looked at different models, we looked at different schools.  We brought in, some of our own consultants, did a lot of work over the summer on this in terms of just developing the program and the curriculum, you know, academic and social emotional curriculum. The overview of the program is four pronged. You know, we look at it in terms of targeted teaching. This is just very specific, targeted teaching to mastery for these students. Positive behavior supports. This is function based individualized interventions. This is all rooted in applied behavior analysis that that discipline. That's the clinical underpinnings here. We're also worked with our  our board certified behavior analyst Matt Zacharia, who we consult with. And we brought in the Aim curriculum, which is, you know, there's sort of three components. It's based in mindfulness, acceptance and commitment therapy and applied behavior analysis. So, you know, there's there's a lot of thought that's gone into this in terms of, you know, the philosophy and then the, the, the clinical and behavioral underpinnings of the program.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Right. So, what you see on the surface, there's there's a depth to this. And we spent a lot of time this summer working with Sherry and others that were,

[10577-82] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2019-10-16
PREV> Ben Nester: components. It's based in mindfulness, acceptance and commitment therapy and applied behavior analysis. So, you know, there's there's a lot of thought that's gone into this in terms of, you know, the philosophy and then the, the, the clinical and behavioral underpinnings of the program.
TEXT> Right. So, what you see on the surface, there's there's a depth to this. And we spent a lot of time this summer working with Sherry and others that were, that were hired on to, you know, to put together something that's legitimate and something that rivals what Brattleboro Retreat offers, what Spaulding Youth Center offers. You know what Granite Hills School offers would go in many other places that we send kids to. The fourth prong of the program is family supports and resources. We know that it's important to get families involved and support them, because the students that are in this program, you know, do have some needs. And so, that's just another important part of the program that that we've built into it. If you recall, those of you that are around for this conversation, we did talk about transitioning 2 to 3 students back  into  the district at this point. As of October 16th, we've transitioned two students back from out of district placement that that were ready.  And so, we're very excited about that. And I do have to give credit to David Cochran, our out of district coordinator. And again, Sherry McDaniel Thomas, the administrator for the pride program in doing that, the the students that we work with in this program have a have a very unique learning profile.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And so transition is, is is wildly important. And so we've made a lot of trips, not me personally, but we've made a lot of trips to the placements that

[10577-83] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2019-10-16
PREV> Ben Nester: do have to give credit to David Cochran, our out of district coordinator. And again, Sherry McDaniel Thomas, the administrator for the pride program in doing that, the the students that we work with in this program have a have a very unique learning profile.
TEXT> And so transition is, is  is wildly important. And so we've made a lot of trips, not me personally, but we've made a lot of trips to the placements that they were in observed met with the teams there.  And. And we've and so like I said, at this point we've transitioned to students back in district again. We continue to work with other families and students to transition them back. And I anticipate that we'll be transitioning another student or two this school year back into into this program from out of district. We also are serving students that have not yet been placed out of district also. So, there's been several students that were that seemed like they needed a more therapeutic, more intense environment. And instead of looking to our other district providers, we've been able to have them attend the pride program here in their own in their home community. I do want to just before I bring  Sherry up to talk about the good stuff, the kids and what and what they're doing specifically in their program. I just want to mention just some names from people behind the scenes that did a lot of work. And I'm going to forget a few people, but Caitlin, one of our occupational therapists, is an extremely hard worker, and she did a lot of legwork behind the scenes as part of the committee.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Kathleen Bonnell Dell, Melissa Lewis, they were all part of the committee that we developed that I put together last year to to look into this and bring the program

[10577-89] Jason Benware |  | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: Go ahead. Jason, I have two.
TEXT> When you go out to to the the placements these kids are at. Yeah. And you're looking at bringing them back to our district. I don't know how to say this tactfully, so I'm just going to say it. What? It has nothing to do with from our end. But what what what is the motivation for them to want to release those kids back to us? I mean, they're a revenue stream for them. Sure, sure. So do you make the decision when they're coming back, or does the place where they're at decide if they're ready?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Ultimately we do. Okay. Where are the where the district of liability. Where the l a so we we ultimately make that decision. I've had the, you know, I went

[10577-91] Jason Benware |  | 2019-10-16
PREV> Ben Nester: line of 20 other kids ready to roll, you know. So it's interestingly, there's no impact on their on their revenue stream, I think okay. The other question is and this may be better Sherry is it sure. Yes. May be better answered by her.
TEXT> But if not so we've got these kids at these placements. Yep. We're bringing them back. You guys have been real busy building this program. What kind of measurement tool have you put into place to determine whether or not these guys are getting better, worse or the same? Learning or  behavioral,  improvement? Is there is there something in place so you can really quantitatively, quantitatively measure.
NEXT> Ben Nester: What we're getting as far as progress? Yeah. There is a metric in place, a clearly quantitative metric. Sherry anticipated that question. And so she's going to share that when

[10577-92] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2019-10-16
PREV> Jason Benware: building this program. What kind of measurement tool have you put into place to determine whether or not these guys are getting better, worse or the same? Learning or behavioral, improvement? Is there is there something in place so you can really quantitatively, quantitatively measure.
TEXT> What we're getting as far as progress? Yeah. There is a metric in place, a clearly quantitative metric. Sherry anticipated that question. And so she's going to share that when she gets up here. I would and we're making progress. Things are going very well. Sherry can give you the details anecdotally before Sherry gets up here. Dale, the principal who is here from bluff, he's he's approached, you know, me several times to say that. Well, there were three kids from bluff that end up going to the program, and he's gone over to visit with the kiddos a few times. And just in fact, tonight he mentioned to me that when he was over there visiting him, some of the kids, or one in particular, he had never seen that student smile in the 2 or 3 years he had known him at bluff, because that was just such an, you know,  a verse of environment for him wasn't getting what he needed. But when he went over to visit the kiddo and the pride program, the kid was just smiling ear to ear, engaged in the project based learning that was going on. So again, that's not quantifiable. But, you know, it's an anecdote, but I just, you know, that it's worth mentioning. So, Sherry.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Can you take one more from Heather?

[10577-98] Sherry McDaniel Thomas | Administrator, PRIDE program (Maple Avenue), SAU 6 (named by Ben Neste | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: All right.
TEXT> Change is hard and that's a reality. If you feel like your kid is stable in their current environment, you're going to be reluctant to make a change for an untried program. All we could do is explain what we were offering and what we plan to do. But a plan is only as good as its execution. I can't speak 100% for how the families are feeling. I know that we've gone from relationships that were reserved to relationships that feel pretty stable, parents that are in good communication, that are happy with the feedback they're getting, happy that their kids are coming home happy. It's feeling like we've got some good relationships with parents. Is that you also asked about what we had for data. We're a very data driven program, but we've only been in school for six weeks. And so when you gather a new program together, the first thing you need to do is determine what it is that you're going to go for. These kids were not known to us. They were pieces of paper through the IEP for us.
NEXT> Sherry McDaniel Thomas: And so we did a 3 to 4 weeks of sort of baseline collecting data on the behaviors that were popping up. From that, we developed behavior charts so that

[10577-99] Sherry McDaniel Thomas | Administrator, PRIDE program (Maple Avenue), SAU 6 (named by Ben Neste | 2019-10-16
PREV> Sherry McDaniel Thomas: weeks. And so when you gather a new program together, the first thing you need to do is determine what it is that you're going to go for. These kids were not known to us. They were pieces of paper through the IEP for us.
TEXT> And so we did a 3 to 4 weeks of sort of baseline collecting data on the behaviors that were popping up. From that, we developed behavior charts so that we can collect data. We can tell when a kid, had an issue where the kid was what we think the precipitating factor, the antecedent was and why we think the kid was doing it. And so we're collecting all that. It hasn't really been long enough to show you data charts yet. They're not they're not meaningful yet. What I can say is, from what I saw documented out of power school from last year, that we're seeing about a 75% reduction in behaviors overall, and the level of the behaviors is much lower, that the kids are not at the very heightened level that they had been the previous year. So we're we're feeling pretty good about our start.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So capacity you've got are you at full capacity now or.

[10577-102] Sherry McDaniel Thomas | Administrator, PRIDE program (Maple Avenue), SAU 6 (named by Ben Neste | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: Well we're.
TEXT> At  capacity is 12. It was never intended my understanding that we'd be at 12 on week six of school. We're at half capacity right now. Both rooms have got three in them. We've got meetings lined up, I think Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,  next week. We have offered positions to people that are currently in out of district placements. Some of them, I think, are kind of waiting to see how things shake out. You asked about the teams and what's in it for them to refer kids back to us. They understand these sending schools, these receiving schools understand that we are their least restrictive environment and understand that their job is to help kids get regulated and then return them back to the to the regular editor. We're not a regular at environment. We're a step down. But what the difference is, is when they're with us, we have typically developing classrooms  two minutes down the hall. And so when our kids are ready, we have that ability to start phasing them in with little tiny bites  back into their home classrooms. Nobody's ready yet. They're all doing great, but not great. Like, let's toss out of the nest for a class A day.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So what is a typical day for? Are they their full day or half day?

[10577-106] Sherry McDaniel Thomas | Administrator, PRIDE program (Maple Avenue), SAU 6 (named by Ben Neste | 2019-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: What's a typical day for.
TEXT> The kids? Come in, they eat breakfast. We have morning meeting, which is a responsive classroom, kind of philosophy.  The kids  talk about kind of how they're feeling, how are things going at home, at school, with friends, whatever is kind of on their mind. It's a time to talk it out. Then we go into academic blocks, which are as project based as we can make them. Some, require some individualized instruction on reading or math. That is, you can embed some into projects and some is just that wrote practice of of reading sight words and that sort of thing.  There's a recess kind of snack time. Another academic block. They have lunch in the classroom, before lunch, their morning behavior is reviewed. If they have had successful behavior, they earn a reward. The reward. There's a chart. Each of them has a chart of things that are their high priority, high interest. And they get to choose from one of those. It's rare that a kid doesn't earn that time. Kids have been really successful. They have lunch, another academic block, a shorter recess, a social skills, behavioral kind of direct instruction. And then usually that  again, debrief of how their afternoon went and reward time and then they go for the day.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Again, I'm just going to reiterate that this is really a therapeutic program. It's again, education is important, but they're not going to learn anything until, they can regulate.

[10577-112] Unidentified | Bluff Elementary fourth-grade teacher, outdoor education presenter (na | 2019-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: And we've.
TEXT> Seen. Some amazing things in the and the, the children are really receptive to us. They will come up and say good morning and hello and, and it's just really nice to see the way the children are acting in that program and they're very, very happy to be there. So it's nice to see.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It in their projects and they're really proud of the work they're doing. It's it's it's fantastic. And to be honest to in my last four years I've been in

[10577-114] Sherry McDaniel Thomas | Administrator, PRIDE program (Maple Avenue), SAU 6 (named by Ben Neste | 2019-10-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the results that you would think you'd have towards the end of the year. So just remember that it can still go up and down. It often does in this world. But it's it's pretty remarkable. Never that it's so I'm very impressed with it.
TEXT> Well, I want to thank David Cochrane. I think his relationship with our out of district families has gone a tremendous way  towards  paving this path. We've also invested a lot of time to go up there to meet the staff, to hang out in classrooms with the kids, to meet with parents and talk to them and walk them through what we're planning to do. And David's Ben. Right. In all of that. And that's that's been a huge piece. I also kind of want to give a shout out. We've got terrific teachers and terrific behaviorists that are highly trained in how to manage kid behaviors, and those are all hired before I arrived. That was that was all. Ben. So, that's huge.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And we're fully staffed.

[10577-123] Sherry McDaniel Thomas | Administrator, PRIDE program (Maple Avenue), SAU 6 (named by Ben Neste | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So here we have part of our space unit. And I would like to show you that we don't just do reports. The kids receive this handy dandy piece of paper which I'm putting together for you. And I'm about to pass around. And what we have here is the universe in a box.  And within this box, if you turn the center spinner to say January,  it will point at the constellations that you will see in the January sky. And after we did that, we took the kids on a field trip to the moon to take a look at constellations. Because isn't that what you do when you work on space? I have to warn you, as you look at this, if you press the right two buttons, you'll dial 911. So just be gentle as you're looking in.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Don't do that.

[10577-126] Sherry McDaniel Thomas | Administrator, PRIDE program (Maple Avenue), SAU 6 (named by Ben Neste | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: Push the button you want to go to the next.
TEXT> Here was part of our lie, build a zoo unit. And so the kids had to research the animals. They had to determine square footage of each pen. They had to figure out enough passageway for people to view the zoo. Animals had to have parking, had to have a refreshment stand. They had to calculate, which animal was the most the favorite viewing animal and set the zookeepers schedule to make sure all the animals got fed every day. And so this is a diorama that one of the kids did, which was an extension activity. Let's see. This is more of the zoo project. More of the zoo project. This is this was actually. This was actually one of the zoo designs. He put two snack bars in. It's important. Here's the exhibits as calculating the square footage for each animal. This project was, how to sell a haunted house. And so they had to watch some. There's actually videos on people that are trying to sell haunted houses. Who knew? And so the kids had to watch a couple of those, and they had to design their sales pitch of why  you would want to buy their haunted house.
NEXT> Sherry McDaniel Thomas: And so, they did the, the rationale, the sort of the ad that they were putting out on their house, designed their houses. And you can see that, you know,

[10577-129] Sherry McDaniel Thomas | Administrator, PRIDE program (Maple Avenue), SAU 6 (named by Ben Neste | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: All right.
TEXT> We have  kids designing their own flowers that are taking sunflower heads, breaking them into pieces, and then recreating them into sunflowers. They've planted them. This is part of the flower unit. And if you get by their classroom, please ask to see their plant because they are so proud of it. It's about this tall right now, and they all rush over to the plant to show you. Okay, we had a bat unit. We had an actual mummified bat that one of our teachers found, and so we used that to do a mammal unit. And the kids, labeled the parts of the bat and got to hold the bat through the baggie. They, you know, we didn't actually give them bats. And then we just finished a community helper where Officer Krystal came over as they talked about the important components of their community, the social skills that they get daily. We have taught or try to teach empathy, the zones of regulation, which is kind of how kids are feeling about their internal selves.  How big is your problem where we actually say, well, dropping your cupcake, is that like.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh.

[10577-131] Sherry McDaniel Thomas | Administrator, PRIDE program (Maple Avenue), SAU 6 (named by Ben Neste | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: Oh.
TEXT> Or is that, you know, a small problem? And, you know, kind of depends on the cupcake. There was some discussion about that. But losing electricity for five days, is that a big problem or a little problem. And so kind of putting those things into perspective for these kids that sometimes really struggle with, a small problem really derailing their day. So that's it. It's only been six weeks. We have lots more fun projects planned for the rest of the year. The kids seem to like them. They seem to be really proud of their efforts and we're really proud of them. Thank you. And the other questions?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Maybe you can come back and see us in the middle of the winter or something and see what how we're doing.

[10605-18] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Was is Superintendent Tempesta said. Part of it is expanding on this, alternative programing, I believe, is what you.
TEXT> So so we know that there are students already who could go  out of district if we could meet their needs in district. And what we're hoping to do with this is, is keep them in district in pretty much. And I'll show  and actually that's that's the slide right, right up there. I didn't think it was cute  for that. But the, If we have them stay in district, it can be hundreds of thousands of dollars. We know these programs and the needs always fluctuate for the students. We know that's the population right now that we have. So and I'm not familiar with the number that you were saying about the  only off 30,000. I'd have to know the context of that. I'm unsure of that number.
NEXT> Cynthia Howard: If you look in the budget, the budget that was voted on this past fiscal year, total loss of aid was 106,000 total.

[10605-59] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Second. By Caroline. Further discussion. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? Okay. Superintendents report they're back on track.
TEXT> Oh, well, I, first item that I have on the report,  I was fortunate enough to attend  with members of the technology team.  The technology conference.  Mask conference at Gillette. It's the largest technology conference in New England. We're fortunate to have it in a drivable distance. It's the premier technology conference in the United States, and we really got a lot out of it. And in,  what we went there looking for was  for ideas about  pretty much pushing our technology. We have great infrastructure and we have a lot of great ideas, but we're trying to push the technology down to the students  by using  laptops and other devices, particularly supporting our project and problem based learning environments that we have at all of the buildings. And we really get a lot of hands on practical tips and networking with educators.  We met with a gentleman today. I did with Mr. Mister Small, came up and had the  lease proposal for  one to ones that we've been working on for a couple of years, with the E rate that will present the board  in the near future, but some, some really positive cost effective plans  that we can we can do a deeper dive with, but really supporting the education that's going on  in the environment and the way Chromebooks have changed  in terms of shelf life.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We we have to do something proactive to stay ahead of that, dilemma. We'll talk about that a later date. But it was it was very, very cost effective. And

[10605-61] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: speak to that a little bit. We had a really successful showing in De with our author in residence, but since she did all the hard work of setting it up with her team, I'll let her take over with that. Sure. If you wanted.
TEXT> All right, I guess so. So during. The day on October 29th, David Elliott, who is our author that you see here, visited our three elementary schools where he spoke to our students about the importance of reading  and writing and what it did for him throughout his years growing up.  And then he read one of his books to them, followed by  questions or comments with the students. And he did go to each one of our elementary schools and present to them that evening at about 530, we provided dinner for our families to come out with their children, and we had our annual title one meeting where we discussed the importance of title one and the programs that are offered to our title one schools, our elementary schools. And then we had our title one meeting after that.  Mr. Elliott then spoke to our families and talked to them about the importance of reading to your students and what it did for him growing up, and what his life was like as a small child, coming from a,  a poor family, and how reading was extremely important to him, and it got him to be where he is today.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And then he stayed after, and what autographed books and met with families individually. And it was a great turnout that parents were really pleased to, to speak with him

[10605-62] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: to your students and what it did for him growing up, and what his life was like as a small child, coming from a, a poor family, and how reading was extremely important to him, and it got him to be where he is today.
TEXT> And then he stayed after, and what autographed books and met with families individually. And it was a great turnout that parents were really pleased to, to speak with him as well as the kids were. And he sat with the kids and had lunch, and it was cute to see all the kids coming up to him and oh, he's here, he's here. So it was really a fun time for the kids to see. And we were lucky. And this was all brought to our district through our title one funding that we do receive from the state.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Thank you. And it really was a tremendous, tremendous day and evening. And to hear and you can see some of the photos that that we we shared with you,

[10605-67] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: on site or off site with embedded mentorship and job training. It's a program we've already been looking at developing, looking in, building with other area school districts, seeing what they're doing, and also borrowing from models from around the other regions in the state.
TEXT> So the pride program, this is the exact graphic from the presentation from last year,  and that is working pretty well. If you want to join me up here, Mr. Nestor, I know that you can speak to the details, the one that I think is most in what we're trying to do is we know  in this, this is how this this programing works all the time. Anyway, when you have known populations, you're responsible for the education of these students and  no matter what. So with the money that we have now, we, we have  and I'm skipping to the autism program because that's the most significant right in front of us. Now, we're hoping that we may be able to bring students back,  and the tuition that we have with six students out of district right now, there's approximately $550,000 intuitions. We're hoping that we could perhaps bring those students back. Not only. And I  want to really make this point, we're not driven by the dollars as much as we are driven by educating students in their town, in the schools that they in the neighborhoods that they grew up in, in district. It is is the best thing to do for students,  makes the most sense.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And it's it's it's the law. If you if you can create a program, it's in the least restrictive environment. That's always the goal. So we also have three students

[10605-72] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-11-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Mr. Sullivan.
TEXT> Manchester today.  That pumpkin palooza  on Halloween was a huge success. They had a record turnout of parents who enjoyed coffee and muffins and performances by every level, including bluff staff. They were fortunate enough to have a local farmer provide enough pumpkins for every student at bluff, and out of 150 pumpkins, 125 pumpkins were carved and we turned to Bluff School  app left school. They will be having their annual things. They feast on November 26th  at 1145. This tradition has been going on at bluff for well over 15 years. If I need doubt, staff or board members are interested in attending the feast, please email or call Diane Landry at Bluff.  I remember that.  Theme for Bluff Sterling and in November is graduated in thankfulness. So students and staff are encouraged to bring in a nonperishable item from November 6th to the 26th. Our items will be donated to the Claremont superstition for. Still, I have nothing for Maple Ave. I do have something that I that I.  After I printed this, the Halloween parade went off without any wet weather issues. The rain had often enough for them to show off their costumes outside.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: Walking down to the NFL and back for the River center. I have nothing, for the Claremont Metascore. Congratulations to the CMS Drama Club for their outstanding performance that they

[10605-80] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-11-06
PREV> Grace Thorton: meetings that Care Conference is doing, which stands for Hosting Young Philosophy Enthusiasts. And so this will cause a lot less confusion. And we actually plan. We're planning to go to the meeting in March as well. And that's it. So if you want to.
TEXT> I do want to add that for offensive Rachel, there is, three committees that we've created. I write three. Yeah, there's the fundraising.  The social media and the hands in the wall. So, Grace runs the social media one. Yeah, she does that in a minute. So the fundraising one would like to. Not ways to get people to like what they know about having a magic show at the high school. That's in the process. And the hands on the wall. What we want to do is have all of the kids at Stephen's put their hands on the wall somewhere or on some type of thing, so that the wall has to be painted. We can move it, not cover up all the handprints. So we're still ripping into that, and we do the hallway high fives between second and third block Monday, Wednesday, five days and the Four Friends Ratios club meets Tuesdays and Thursdays, but the subcommittees meet different days.
NEXT> Grace Thorton: Going back to the social media, we actually have an Instagram page. It's the four club compliments. And each week we, give a student of the week and the teacher

[10623-22] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (chair: 'Mr. Sulliv | 2019-11-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Further discussion. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? Great. Student representative report. Mr. Sullivan.
TEXT> So? For Stevens High School.  Today was I applied day, and we had 57 students send out applications on 188 applications were submitted. Just the review, a point of reference. Last year, we had 45 student centered applications with 101 applications being submitted. Students who applied today were able to waive the applications fees, saving them hundreds of dollars. Each year this event grows and we have more students apply to New Hampshire schools every year. This personally brought up my total  applications from 4 to 7.  So I've never played seven colleges. The volunteers loved working with our students, and we're very impressed with both them and our school today. Thank you all so much with with your help with this successful event and your patience with today, it was greatly appreciated. That's Tuesday, we are having our first friends giving Devin Flats for students and staff. Staff and faculty will be Brandon and all the fittings for things. Different feast, which will be held in the library and open to any students who sign up. Come on out to Stevens on Saturday, December 7th for the police versus fire department basketball tournament in the gym. This is to be a fun event and fundraiser. Come on down and support fire and police as they go.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: Head to head on the court the following Saturday, December 14th from 9 to 3 is the third annual Stevens High School Holiday Craft Fair. We already have over 30

[10623-23] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (chair: 'Mr. Sulliv | 2019-11-20
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: any students who sign up. Come on out to Stevens on Saturday, December 7th for the police versus fire department basketball tournament in the gym. This is to be a fun event and fundraiser. Come on down and support fire and police as they go.
TEXT> Head to head on the court the following Saturday, December 14th from 9 to 3 is the third annual Stevens High School Holiday Craft Fair. We already have over 30 vendors, not to mention pictures with Santa in an awesome procession. A way of holiday goodies on November 13th. Students attended the River Valley Community College Day and talked with professors firsthand. On the 15th, we went to Teen State College at Cessna Mention, and we spoke with college representatives from around the state for the Claremont Middle School. They wanted the students of the month for grade six, low grade seven and wrap. Grade eight is about listen media and Marion Nelson Davis for unified outrage sits telling more unified outraged seven matters faster and unified arbitrator Shirley Butterfield. It is time to stuff the turkey. CMS staff and students are asked to bring a nonperishable food items for the week of November 18th through 22nd. For Bluff Elementary School. At Bluff School, we they will be having their annual seven day feast on November 26th at 1145. This tradition has been going on at bluff for well over 15 years. If any doubt, staff of board members or interested in attending the feast, please email or call Diane Landry. Theme for Bluffs duel in November is driver to the students and staff are returned to bring a nonperishable item from the six of the 26.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: All items were due to the Claremont Soup Kitchen, and they have the holiday concert on December 12th at 6 p.m.. For just now, they'll be hosting a family literacy

[10623-74] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: been other area, special ed directors in administrators have have heard about this program, and Mr. Nester has spoken about this and answered questions about the program, about having potential other students come to Claremont as tuition, paying tuition to come in and just estimating.
TEXT> And prior to coming here as superintendent, I ran a special ed collaborative in  Massachusetts. I'm very familiar with with creating programs like this in tuition structures and having revenue streams. And it's something that that there's a need in this area. There's a need for our own students, but also catchment area of approximately 30 or 40 miles where we may have a revenue stream coming in. And that's something that we want to think about with all of the other factors.  The budgetary factors and the challenges of budgeting in general is it would be great to have revenue streams coming in as well. So if we had if we budgeted students to come in at 65,000 a tuition. Okay. Some of the tuitions that we were paying  for, some of our students to go out  are much higher than that. And I'll talk about that in the next slide. If we we would have the capacity with this model to have eight students come to us. I'm not saying we have them all identified yet, but potentially they could come to us from other districts and we would have the potential to make about $500 in that one classroom. So it's just, you know, nothing is guaranteed, but just the fact that we would be educating our students at home and our students wouldn't be going out.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: As I'll show you in the next slide with the autism program, okay, the autism program we currently have right now, we have three students that we know in this

[10623-87] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination - the remain | 2019-11-20
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. That's another hand.
TEXT> I. Think there's a. Perception in the community. Maybe. Some. Level of confusion. And we just have to be crystal clear that, expanding these programs does not mean that we're actually expanding our overall budget because we're already paying for these students. This is education right now.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's right. That's that's a great that's a great point.

[10623-98] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: No, but that's kind of what I'm I don't know if.
TEXT> Yeah. Nothing of the sort. Well, what we're what we're doing positive. We already have these students. We've always had these students. Okay. And we'll we'll have more. Right. What we're doing proactively is saying, wait, we have some rooms available. We we know if we  intervene and have these students and they meet the criteria, the programs that we can create,  we we can offer them a chance to be educated here. These  I'm trying to be respectful of where these other programs are in the in how long they travel. But these a lot of our students are on the bus for  over an hour each way.  Every single day. That's two hours a day where they could just go to school in our schools. So that's for openers. And I guarantee you the program  that we can put together that we have, there's a, you know, a track record of this. It's a it's a very substantial program as, as good as any in the state of New Hampshire. Yes.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So this may be getting the cart way ahead of the horse. But so the programs we have right now are, are set up essentially for elementary age kids with

[10623-102] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Jason' [22], [302], [ | 2019-11-20
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So  either are we looking ahead to the idea of okay, when these kids have then aged out of elementary school, are we then looking at potentially having programs in place for these kids?
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[10623-107] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Few more questions. As it currently stands, when we're sending these students out of district, how much control does does our special ed department have over the curriculum that those students are enjoying?
TEXT> The they they have some control. So we have a we're we're blessed with  Dave Cochran, our placement coordinator, as an encyclopedic knowledge of every resource available  for for  in he knows every program he visits, every program he knows, the staff at, every program he knows a good fit for a kid. He's very good at his job, but we've also been consulting with them at what we could build and where we could build it here. And he agrees. I mean, if we could, there's a lot we can do here,  so we don't have as much control. Obviously, we don't directly manage the school.  This is not to say that some of the placements that our students are in are, aren't, aren't good or anything like that. Every there's something for, for every kid. But I'm very confident having visited.
NEXT> Unidentified: A couple.

[10623-132] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination - the remain | 2019-11-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: No. Right. I didn't say it's second nature for for me. But you're right.
TEXT> I think there. Would be maybe some concerns that, you know, we're, we're bringing these kids in to. So get the tuition. Does that mean that,  you know, our kids might be.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: To piggyback on that point to. We don't know. But if you look at a trend analysis, we haven't had time to do that in depth. But but you we

[10623-133] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: I think there. Would be maybe some concerns that, you know, we're, we're bringing these kids in to. So get the tuition. Does that mean that, you know, our kids might be.
TEXT> To piggyback on that point to. We don't know. But if you look at a trend analysis, we haven't had time to do that in depth. But but you we will have other kids identified in this time to at the early grades. We will definitely have other kids for our own. It's definitely if we went with the autism one right away. We have 12 spots right away. It would be great to get those tuitions. It would be a revenue stream. It would be, you know, if it works out for us. But we're not we're not doing this to get to it. That's not our primary motivation. Our primary motivation is to educate our students in our community as best we can, and we feel much more confident that we can do that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I was just going to say, you know, Carolyn spoke to the quality of life for the children, and there's people out there who may not care about the quality

[10623-134] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Benware: 'piggybacking on what Rebe | 2019-11-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: out for us. But we're not we're not doing this to get to it. That's not our primary motivation. Our primary motivation is to educate our students in our community as best we can, and we feel much more confident that we can do that.
TEXT> I was just going to say, you know, Carolyn spoke to the quality of life for the children, and there's people out there who may not care about the quality of life. They may just care about the money piece of it. And I think it's just important to remember that this is, something we've been talking about as a board for a few years, even before the newbies came on. And we always talk about generating revenue. So even though we're not thinking about doing it to generate revenue, I think it's really important to make it clear and have everybody understand that these programs are programs that would potentially generate quite a bit of revenue, which is going to decrease the cost of the budget and cover other things. So I think that that's something that we haven't really talked about a whole lot. We skimmed on it, but I think it's really important for people to know that this is going to save money in the long run.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Both. Mike, I think, you know, looking at these programs, I, I've been supporting this for a long time since we first started talking. About them. And I think they're

[10623-135] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: budget and cover other things. So I think that that's something that we haven't really talked about a whole lot. We skimmed on it, but I think it's really important for people to know that this is going to save money in the long run.
TEXT> Both. Mike, I think, you know, looking at these programs, I, I've been supporting this for  a long time since we first started talking. About them. And I think they're great. I think we it is good to mention that. You know,  I'm hearing people say, you know, more special ed, more special ed, more special ed, and we're trying to bring these kids home. And doing this helps the kids behavior, special ed kids. It helps them. But honestly, it helps.  What we would say is a typical student as well. The regular classrooms, there's there's this is going to trickle down and help those classrooms as well. It's freeing up potentially some budget areas that you know, can help in other areas. So it's not just special ed, specialized special ed. It's looking at doing this to help the district as a whole.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Especially as we already have.

[10623-141] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Zullo asks 'So Ben, are you guys | 2019-11-20
PREV> Jason Benware: that level. So if, if there's anything we can show the public that that is indeed the track we're going on, then there's going to be a lot of confidence in this and I'm confident in it. But I'd like to see numbers as well.
TEXT> You know, just as we talk about this at the granular level in detail, I think the big picture for me, the message  that I want to get out there is that,  you know, we're obligated to meet these students needs under Ida. That's not going to go away ever  in our lifetime.  And so what we're simply doing here is we're attempting to meet these students needs in a fiscally sustainable manner, right? I mean, we see our our district costs grow, grow every year. And so we need to do something. And with Mike's vision and the board's support, I think we're doing it.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So it's not just Mike's vision. So take a little credit.

[10623-148] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: So I'll.
TEXT> Go back. All right. So the the the autism one, we talked about the, this is also something that I wanted to talk about, and I we're going to have to stop for clarity on this as well. And I just wanted to there are factors in how hard, frankly, Mr. Nestor's job is in predicting finances, in budgeting. And this this is also something that I want to educate the community on, and also to say there's there's definitely a need for the for the program  at Stevens, the social emotional learning and how kids present with issues particularly trauma informed  in in structure and impacts and how kids present  is substantial both in our schools and in our communities and also in other social services and circles in the courts. Okay, so we have about 30 students at  Stevens High right now who are identified as at risk of maybe not finishing on time. About half of those students, a third to a half of those students  are. We did this a  little while ago, are identified as special ed or being evaluated for special ed. And just by creating smaller  classes and pushing in  a mental health counseling, as well as having a fixed block, having these students,  wraparound services, okay, with the counseling and also  mentorships in the community and have them go split days in evenings depending on their situation.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There's much more success. We've had success with other programs at Stevens and in other communities and in other places doing this. But what I wanted to speak about two

[10623-181] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Jason' [22], [302], [ | 2019-11-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: the other 650 will go back for property tax relief. So I don't know if anybody wants to add anything to what I've said, but I'm hoping that people are listening from what I saw on Facebook. A lot of people are so good, dad.
TEXT> Something I've seen a fair amount posted. And I think there's some confusion as to the money itself.  People are suggesting that it was sent back to our district specifically for tax relief. For those of us that spent a lot of time going down to Concord and testifying and the administrators and our representatives, what we were testifying about was how our educational system was affected by these cuts over the last several years, as well as how it affects the people who live in the town. So the money itself is a restoration of the adequacy aid that was being cut by us since 2016, about 4% a year, about $225,000 a year over the last several years. So it's really restoration of that and that, that that adequacy aid is simply it was supposed to put people who are kids who live in property, poor towns on a more level playing field with towns like Hanover and Bedford. And so it was supposed to make it a  allow our, our schools to give our kids a more adequate education. So to simply suggest that it was money just to kick back to our taxes, I think is a little shortsighted. I think as a board, we decided that we wanted to try to do both. I think we wanted to try to sort of add to our schools, but also return some to the taxpayers.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And I think it's a it's a logical approach. Also, want to say that if we were to return the 1.3 million and if that's what the voters decide to

[10623-205] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (uncertain - not named on this recording | 2019-11-20
PREV> Richard Seaman: good work by not me. I'm just the opportunity to say okay and submit at the end of a lot of work by others. So that's good news. The challenge that we continue to have is on is on debt related to our food service.
TEXT> At the end of last year,  we had a balance, a negative balance of $25,900 at the end of fiscal 19.  That has continued to grow this year and is up by another $6,000. So it's up over $32,000. Now, I can tell you that the effort that is underway within the schools by Abby Group, by D, by a whole range of different people sending certified letters calling people who have outstanding balances, being promised payments that don't arrive at Cetera, etc., etc.  we're also trying to work with families that have not returned free and reduced applications, saying there's no reason for your student, you know, for you to have this, this type of an issue, if you'll just return the application. And very few of those are continuing to come in. Now, the policy of the school is that we will serve a lunch to a child. We're not going to turn a child away and say, you can't have a meal. So every child will receive a  a meal with proper nutrition and the same as any other child.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We are not letting students do what is called a la carte or specialty items. You can't get coffee or you can't get other items in there, but a meal

[10623-206] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (uncertain - not named on this recording | 2019-11-20
PREV> Richard Seaman: the school is that we will serve a lunch to a child. We're not going to turn a child away and say, you can't have a meal. So every child will receive a a meal with proper nutrition and the same as any other child.
TEXT> We are not letting students do what is called a la carte or specialty items. You can't get coffee or you can't get other items in there, but a meal is provided to every student, which is causing us to have this kind of  of a debt issue. When you take a look at best practices for trying to collect on debt, and this is a challenge going on, as we all know, countrywide, we're doing a lot of those best practices. We are following up, we are in touch with the families. We are keeping it in front of them. But at the same time,  we have made the point that we will continue to feed the child. That's the most important thing to include. Ensure our children both get a good meal and are prepared to learn.  Now we have received and the reason I wanted to bring this forward today and share it with the board is we have received inquiries from groups that are saying, is there a debt and we would like and make a contribution to that to help offset it.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: And I, of course, did not want to share to an external group before he shared to the board what the status of our debt situation was. But out of

[10623-319] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Zullo asks 'So Ben, are you guys | 2019-11-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: So those people are with kids that are medically fragile, but also behavioral, behaviorally challenged. Yes. With diagnosed, would a doctor diagnose?
TEXT> No, not necessarily not. It's you know, it's based on what the student needs. And then 90, 90% of the cases, you know, it's a medically necessary service. And so we get reimbursement for that. Yeah. Yeah.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: You have to go through a checklist to qualify for that. There's specific state requirements in order to be able to have a rehab assistant attached to a student.

[10624-7] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to $90,000 as soon as well to the autism program. So in that one program, we would have the potential to make over $1 million a year coming in for revenue for an outlet of $280,000. All right. So that is why we're doing this.
TEXT> And we also have an alternative school at Stevens that we that we feel that we can keep you in the program that we had recently. And it got cut. And as part of the adequacy restoration that this money was intended to be able to put that back. So kids graduate on time and that they are very successful in life. So those those  and I really want to speak  in fact, about and we also have a we have a short term record of success. We have prior to coming here, I've worked at a large special laboratory where we build programs like this all the time, and we've had a lot of success. The autism program talking about is the New England Center for children program, one of the highest regarded programs in the world, not just the United States or the northeast. They it's they have a campus in Aligarh in India, and we have access to their trainers, their curriculum, and it would be an amazing placement for our kids. Like I said, we have six already that we know of that would benefit right away. And we know that we'll have future kids and we know that we can students back as well. So that's that's for your research. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, Mr. Tempesta. We will now review the Warren Harrison Attica one special education funding. The Monterey recognizes school board member Jason Benwell.

[10624-16] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: $1.2 million, $1.3 million that we would be getting this year, this year. So it's essentially an uninterrupted income. Hence the meeting. What we're proposing is, is returning half of that to the taxpayers and half for the programs that we're proposing for you tonight.
TEXT> So I want to talk a little bit about these kids briefly. And if I  would talk a little bit about the short sightedness of those  lawmakers that decided to cut stabilization grants in that the fewer the number of students definitely are fewer, but the needs are certainly greater the of an introduced. Those of you who are not educators to a term that all the educators in here are very familiar with, and it's called aces. And aces are adverse childhood experiences. And these can be substance and drug abuse, physical emotional abuse, food insecurity, housing and security,  death of a parent, incarceration of a parent. And the more aces a kid has, the more likely they are to wind up in a program such as Mr. Trump has stopped, and Claremont  has a few kids that have a lot of aces. And so, as he had said, part of our purpose, if not only to educate these children,  but to also allow children who are for more stable environments,  the opportunity to learn these restrictive environment applies also to students who are entitled to learn. Without students with serious emotional issues and classes interrupting that learning as well. So rather than having the extent of the very expensive option of sending these students to other districts,  other private organizations where they're very expensive, we have very little control over what  services that they provide.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We would like to bring that back in the House and have complete control over it while their students, while the students are here in the town that they know

[10624-17] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: emotional issues and classes interrupting that learning as well. So rather than having the extent of the very expensive option of sending these students to other districts, other private organizations where they're very expensive, we have very little control over what services that they provide.
TEXT> We would like to bring that back in the House and have complete control over it while their students, while the students are here in the town that they know and can stay with the families that care for them. So in the first speaker, I want you to all  to that. That's why we're here tonight. We have not come by this decision. Appreciably. We've given them a lot of thought, and it's an opportunity  to not only take care of our own kids, but to, actually establish a new funding source. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, Mr. Sprague. When I became to be on the adequate before you, anyone wishing to speak against the act. Please remember to state your name. One of residents.

[10624-23] Cynthia Howard | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified [63], [189]) | 2019-11-21
PREV> Unidentified: Anyone wishing to speak against the article?
TEXT> Cynthia Howard wore two.  And this is pretty much a continuation of our little Q&A session we have a couple of weeks ago,  I brought in some information that further states my case on special education a in that we didn't look that much  that much for four years.  The most that we lost was for catastrophic aid.  And over the period of four years from 2016 to this year, this fiscal year,  it is approximately $269,000. But when you factor in all the other revenue streams, it comes to around one four years, 106,000. So  why are we using all this money for another program, adding more programs when we are still getting a lot of money from the state? I think this is a common misconception from everybody that  we're losing aliens of dollars from the state of New Hampshire, and they're cutting back thousands and thousands. No, that's not true. And we were very lucky from the governor. And  yet that money.  I believe it was like $76 million that was sent across the state of New Hampshire.  But to add additional programs  that are only going to add more staff and become more social programs, and this autism program, a lot of it is medicating the children, and it's not really serving any  purpose.
NEXT> Cynthia Howard: Why wouldn't we need dropout programs? I mean, that is something that you would do on a one 1 to 1 basis, not within the program itself. So, I mean,

[10624-33] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 3, former educator, neutral (ASR 'Doctor voice' | 2019-11-21
PREV> Unidentified: as introduced by the head of the board, said that the half that's not been spent on this program is going to come back to the taxpayers. Is that correct? Correct. Is that in the form of a check? It goes into the general fund.
TEXT> Because if it is, that's that's really good because I, I'm skeptical.  Because there's all kinds of ways of interpreting it'll come back to the taxpayers.  And I'm always as a former educator, I'm always interested in new programs, creative ways of financing, creative ways of giving all of our children every chance,  not just those  at one end of the spectrum, but those at the other end and everyone in between. See, I see all students as equal, and that's the way we need to treat them now. Some needs more help than others,  but it's not to the exclusion  of others. So I just want to make that clear. All right. I can't wait to get that check in the mail. I assume that a portion. And is that a promise? Right? Right.  So so everybody understands how this works. There's $650,000 that's coming back to the taxpayers. What ends up happening is when they go to set the tax rate, they'll take that $650,000 and they'll apply it like a revenue source, just like the state aid that we normally get.  So it will reduce the tax rate, which in essence removing tax obligations. That's how it comes back. Sorry. Anyone wants you to speak in favor of the amendment. Yeah. No no no. Deb.
NEXT> Deb: Metal Ward one. I was on the school board way, way back when, when the first, suit was brought against the state. My son was in kindergarten at the time

[10624-34] Deb | Public commenter, Ward 1, former Claremont School Board member (ASR 'D | 2019-11-21
PREV> Unidentified: revenue source, just like the state aid that we normally get. So it will reduce the tax rate, which in essence removing tax obligations. That's how it comes back. Sorry. Anyone wants you to speak in favor of the amendment. Yeah. No no no. Deb.
TEXT> Metal Ward one. I was on the school board way, way back when, when the first, suit was brought against the state. My son was in kindergarten at the time when son was not 36 years old. I, I  don't think we're very far from where you were 30 years ago, as far as  equality and how education is funded from community to community and sense to us, from student to student. We still, can't do a lot of things I'm sure this board and staff would like to do in this community for the kids we have in this community, because of finding restrictions, we and they appreciate that our tax rate is high and they struggle every year to try to keep that burden as low as it can. But as a result of that, things don't get done. You lay staff off, you try to do  more with less, but that doesn't always work. And there's a lot of things in Claremont that can be done. We reach kids early and we and they've developed a program that to me sounds smart  coming from a money  standpoint and from a programing standpoint.
NEXT> Deb: You keep kids in the community, you, save money eventually. I know a lot of people distrust that. Well, that's not going to happen. They're going to save it. They're

[10624-35] Deb | Public commenter, Ward 1, former Claremont School Board member (ASR 'D | 2019-11-21
PREV> Deb: with less, but that doesn't always work. And there's a lot of things in Claremont that can be done. We reach kids early and we and they've developed a program that to me sounds smart coming from a money standpoint and from a programing standpoint.
TEXT> You keep kids in the community, you, save money eventually. I know a lot of people distrust that. Well, that's not going to happen. They're going to save it. They're going to save money. They won't save money. But you know what? Let's wait and see.  If they got $1.3 million, they're giving half of it back to the taxpayers, and they're keeping half of it to try to work on a program that to me looks like it's going to, in the long run, save us money. And it also looks like it's going to be better for the kids of this community. And I'm in favor of it because I want to see what's best for the kids in this community. And I think this is a fair compromise. And I would love someday for the state  to step up to the plate and fix this problem once and for all. And if everybody in this room votes for people who are willing to go to the state and look at real solutions to this funding, because it will never happen here locally, we just don't have enough money to spend. But if you elect people to the state of New Hampshire and governors and legislators that will really look at fixing this issue long term, that's.
NEXT> Unidentified: Can I please ask if you want to speak, if you raise your hand? As you can see, I'm having a problem with Steven tonight. Anyone wishing to speak against

[10624-37] Unidentified | Public commenter, speaks against; argues money should lower taxes (nam | 2019-11-21
PREV> Unidentified: and need the help, but I think that is something best done through the state legislature and prosecutor mandates given by the federal government. There's a there's a point of no return. There's just so many taxpayers in Claremont. And I believe how many students?
TEXT> 1700 and total expense is  far in excess of what it is in the other parts of the state. So I think the burden falls on the part of the legislature. It falls on the part of the school board. I think a serious introspection is in order, because the ultimate end is what is good for the student. And given the expense paid on the student and the expense paid to the administrators, the teachers, all the peripheral amounts far exceeds the individual payment to the particular student. You know something needs to be done. Okay, we  really want results. What are we spending the money for? Is there a benefit? If not, then you do something. Different time. Okay. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of the amendment? Yes.
NEXT> Ali Filene: Good evening. My name is Ali Filene and I am work from word to. I'm also a teacher at Maple Avenue School and have been at. Maple Avenue for 22

[10624-38] Ali Filene | Public commenter, Ward 2, Maple Avenue School teacher (name as heard,  | 2019-11-21
PREV> Unidentified: the particular student. You know something needs to be done. Okay, we really want results. What are we spending the money for? Is there a benefit? If not, then you do something. Different time. Okay. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of the amendment? Yes.
TEXT> Good evening. My name is Ali Filene and I am work from word to. I'm also a teacher at Maple Avenue School  and have been at. Maple Avenue for 22 years. And. I'd like to say that in the past. Ten. Years, I've. Seen a huge. Change in. The structure. And. Just the way kids are coming into our. Schools. When they enter preschool and kindergarten.  But it's actually more like. 3 or 4. Maybe five years. Every year is challenging, and it gets more challenging because we are not able to provide these children with what they need. We have a lot of children who have challenges, and then we have the other end. We have a challenge, the students who we are challenged with because we need to provide enrichment.  However, I'm speaking here tonight  about the very high needs of some of our kiddos. A program like this would enable these kids to stay in Claremont. We would be able to provide the services for our  ourselves, and obviously it would be a less expense, but it would keep everything within our district and within our town.
NEXT> Ali Filene: It is untrue that when a child is in a special ed program, or just because they are autistic or have other special needs, it is untrue that we automatically

[10624-39] Ali Filene | Public commenter, Ward 2, Maple Avenue School teacher (name as heard,  | 2019-11-21
PREV> Ali Filene: our kiddos. A program like this would enable these kids to stay in Claremont. We would be able to provide the services for our ourselves, and obviously it would be a less expense, but it would keep everything within our district and within our town.
TEXT> It is untrue that when a child is in a special ed program, or just because they are autistic or have other special needs, it is untrue  that we automatically medicate them. So  we need to all understand.  And I don't know many of the school board members well,  but they're not devious.  So we need to respond to our students, right?
NEXT> Unidentified: Anyone wishing to speak against the amendment. 0111 again, and I just want to say, I know the kids have problems and I know we need to help them. I'm

[10624-40] Unidentified | School District Moderator (presides; not named on the recording) | 2019-11-21
PREV> Ali Filene: are autistic or have other special needs, it is untrue that we automatically medicate them. So we need to all understand. And I don't know many of the school board members well, but they're not devious. So we need to respond to our students, right?
TEXT> Anyone wishing to speak against the amendment. 0111 again,  and I just want to say, I know the kids have problems and I know we need to help them.  I'm not arguing with that at all. What? I'm objecting to  the warrant at this time is the fact that  at least a few of the reps that I contacted said that  if they go and spend it, other than tax reduction, they can kiss it away because we're never going to vote for it again. And I would hate to see us for a few months before the next budget comes out. And we vote on that and put it in as a warrant and not  and not jeopardized us getting tax relief from the state after this biennial period, this to years. I just think it's foolish for a couple of months of waiting to put it in, that we should jeopardize getting relief in the future. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of the amendment? All right, I. Mean, Ward. Two  can work well. I moved. I have three points. And the school board wants a correction. Feel free. Okay,  point number one,  it's not necessarily a decision of social programs. It's a replacement of programs that have been taken away over the years as we've tried to provide tax relief. Number two, and regardless of the vote tonight, taxpayers are going to get some  sort of relief in their own.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes. Yeah. Correct. Okay, okay. And then, number three, in the long term, we would probably actually save us money because as being a special educator, seeing the cost takes

[10624-42] Jeremy Harold | Public commenter, Ward 1, parent (ASR 'Jeremy Harold', moderator 'Mr.  | 2019-11-21
PREV> Unidentified: the citizens out of the district. This would allow people to remain in Claremont because we'd have the programs to be able to serve their needs. Am I right? Okay. That's it. Thank you. Anyone wishing to speak against the motion who hasn't spoken yet?
TEXT> I don't want to speak again, but I have. Some concerns. Can I come up with concerns? Sure. Okay. So is Jeremy. Harold. One one. Again, I'm not here to speak against her for it. What I'm here is just some some concerns myself. I have five children. One who is, highly attention. Deficit disorder. And we made our personal individual decision to remove our children from the public school system for our own reasons. Put them in private school, which is at risk. Excuse me. Since then, immediately we saw that our children's academics, compared to all the other kids that. Were in that school, were very, very, very low there. They were like at a grade below some in some cases like two grades below some of these kids that they want  that they started to go to school with. So my concern is here  I know Essar six, this district is on the the lower end of academics in this state, meaning how many children of this district are below proficient and how many are above proficient. So my concern is if we spend this money.
NEXT> Jeremy Harold: To do what obviously isn't really working for that, that don't have special needs because of the the proficiency levels here, what kind of guarantee do we have as taxpayers,

[10624-43] Jeremy Harold | Public commenter, Ward 1, parent (ASR 'Jeremy Harold', moderator 'Mr.  | 2019-11-21
PREV> Jeremy Harold: concern is here I know Essar six, this district is on the the lower end of academics in this state, meaning how many children of this district are below proficient and how many are above proficient. So my concern is if we spend this money.
TEXT> To do what obviously isn't really working for that, that don't have special needs because of the the proficiency levels here, what kind of guarantee do we have as taxpayers, parents, uncles, aunts, grandparents? What kind of guarantee do we have with this program is actually going to work because I've heard a lot of this. Probably this is a good  program. This could bring money back in. This could be self-sustaining and actually make Clermont money. This could save money. Could could, could. But how do we. And what kind of guarantees do we have? Because the kids without special needs are very, very low proficient. So those are my concerns. Again I'd like to see everyone here. I'd like to see children in Need special help have it. And I'd like to see taxpayers get some relief for a change in Claremont. If there's a win win somewhere and there's some kind of.  I mean, what happens if people don't start sending their kids here to where it's profitable  for Claremont? You know, for the first program, what happens in the long run if we have to then push money towards this on addition. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Anyone wishing to speak in favor of the amendment. That. I'm just curious. Mr. Harold's questions. I don't know. If those were questions. Or we actually would like to respond

[10624-48] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: identified who we've already talked to, there's a good chance that they would come back just like what already happened. So I'm telling you, we have success already on the fledgling program that was just adopted with the elderly of of the budget last year.
TEXT> We already have three kids. That that's a fact.  That's happened now. That's a positive thing. That's one we know that the ones that and that was that was one population. We would be keeping 270 from leaving this year. No matter what. We think that we could have the other ones come back. The money that comes back to the district that we could save, not just this year, but in future years, to educate that population of students in district is money that could be freed up for all students, as the point was made by a by a few other folks, so that that's  if we do nothing. Einstein's definition of insanity is when you expect things to happen in your new results, in no change in anything. This is a proactive way to plan ethically  with  a lot of thought and care for both the students. And also it is a financial benefit, so we're very excited about it. In terms of recent experience with this, I last four years, I ran the largest special ed collaborative in Massachusetts. We took part in program built. We tripled the size of the operation, and we have a lot of  I have a lot of networks, personal ones that I can use  and to to  create a marquee program, not just an adequate program in this area for our students and also that we think will attract other students.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's just one of us. Will it be metrics to be able to visit this in a year ago? Hey. These are success stories or they're not. Absolutely. They're they're.

[10624-52] Unidentified | Public commenter, speaks in favor; wife is a first-grade teacher (ASR  | 2019-11-21
PREV> Unidentified: extreme burden with increased, special needs issues, especially these, in other words, learning issues, behavioral issues, all those eventually turn into interference with the teacher's ability to actually teach children dealing with the cable networks, having to have spend one on one time with children.
TEXT> I think it's important that we  give them all the tools that they need to make sure that our children are educated and yes, those other children that have problems that are coming from the Oklahoma. So there's drugs, whether it's relationship issues. I think it's good thing. So I do sport. Anyone wishing to speak against the motion that hasn't spoken yet? Anyone wishing to speak against the motion a second time. This happened.
NEXT> Cynthia Howard: Cynthia Howard, Ward two. We're forgetting that the driving force of the Claremont tax rate encompasses the biggest part of the budget, which is salaries and benefits. Approximately 75% of

[10624-54] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 3, speaks in favor (ASR 'Stapleton'; name uncer | 2019-11-21
PREV> Cynthia Howard: to the taxpayers. And that's I'm I'm posed to this Warren article because I think the money should come back to the taxpayers the entire 1.3 million for this biennium. Thank you. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of the motion? Up in the back.
TEXT> Well, Stapleton Ward, free special. Read. More than just autism. A D is expensive, but it is necessary. We have no guarantee that the program expense. And if we have more students in that need in that category, we're going to have an increase expense. It's an open and deficit of. The program not only helps the young people who need the services, but it also, in effect, is a loss bringing the program here at home in house. And the bonus is as once the program is established and you've curtailed the outgo and the outflow. Now we can bring students in, and this is a revenue source and a revenue stream for the long term. We may have money this year and maybe in the next budget year, but this is not sustainable.  This was a top five budget that was passed in the state and it's not sustainable. So we take the money and we put it to immediate use, help the kids stop the loss and create a revenue potentially for the school and the city. Thank you. Anyone wishing to speak against the motion? I want to call. Quick call the question. Okay. We have a motion to call a question. All in favor, please say aye. Aye.  Opposed?
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. We have a motion and a question for the call. Will now take a vote on the motion. I'd like to do a voice vote, and if it's questionable,

[10624-55] Unidentified | School District Moderator (presides; not named on the recording) | 2019-11-21
PREV> Unidentified: and create a revenue potentially for the school and the city. Thank you. Anyone wishing to speak against the motion? I want to call. Quick call the question. Okay. We have a motion to call a question. All in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed?
TEXT> Okay. We have a motion and a question for the call.  Will now take a vote on the motion.   I'd like to do a voice vote, and if it's questionable, then I'll be doing a speedy vote. All in favor of the motion, please signify by saying I, I, I  opposed. May the ayes have it. Thank you. Tonight's meeting. On behalf of the school district, I want to thank you for your attendance tonight. Tonight?
NEXT> 

[10638-5] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1; reporter and former Claremont School Board m | 2019-12-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: a public hearing is about or they don't know what the that there was a special meeting and I don't know that I fault them. There's a communication problem going on and I'm really bothered contrary to what that to what this district lawyer said.
TEXT> What I just read was not that complicated. It was pretty simple. And I can't believe we're doing this all again. And nobody on the school board noticed it again. You know, I'm tired of I don't I'm not going to write about this. I don't want to write about it. So but I felt like I need to get this out because I don't want to have to keep on bringing this up. I believe in transparency and following the rules. If the district can't follow the rules that the school board can't follow the rules, how can you expect the kids to?
NEXT> Unidentified: Thanks, Patrick. Thank you.

[10638-32] Cassie Burke | Public commenter, Ward 3, parent (ASR 'Kasey Burke' [51], 'Cassie' [68 | 2019-12-04
PREV> Cassie Burke: people. So that's why that vote, I didn't come in because I didn't think that it was my time, you know what I mean? And now I find out that there's a new revote. And again, I'm I'm upset because it's impacting my family specifically.
TEXT> You know what I mean? There's there's no place for my kid here, and that's what I'm being told. But then there's funding that can build something to make it where there's something here for my son, and the communication isn't happening. I had no plans on coming in here and talking. I just I felt like that needed to be said. For the parents who have special ed kids. I just, like I said, you'll send a letter for a football fundraiser, you'll send a letter for other things. But there's no communication within the school to the parents who really need it. So that's all I really have to say. I just felt that I needed to say that one part thing.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: You do have to be a registered voter to vote. Okay? So there are there are restrictions on who can can vote.

[10638-90] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (ASR 'Tala Sullivan | 2019-12-04
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: same day as the meeting on Disney at elementary school. On Tuesday, the 27th of November doesn't allow students participate in a variety of community gratitude activities such as twin ornaments, dog treats, tattoos, and wildlife friendly treated durations to be donated throughout our community.
TEXT> On Thursday, December 5th, they will be hosting a family literacy event as part of a Cliff Grant celebration. This event includes dinner presentation, such parent session with the speaker, and a storytelling time for the entire family. Joining us will be mouth Class in Landis mouth class and Landis as a performer, writer, educator, and education consultant. He is also the author and illustrator of Jump Children. Jump in the coauthor. Please talk to me. He writes poetry and fiction for children and adults, and these which shops, residencies, and family poetry parties. He co-founded Children of Voices Theater, which is dedicated to inspiring young people to express themselves, to write a number forming. May have their holiday concert. December 1967 the annual holiday for Claremont Minister. The annual holiday Winter concert is December 17th from 7 to 8:30 p.m.. The Sims Spelling Bee will be Friday, December 13th at 8 a.m.. A huge congratulations to those who have made it to The Sims Spelling Bee! Good luck and the winner does! The States and I went to states in fifth grade, so I wish him all luck. And they how'd mischief Howard? Her seventh grade spelling bee. There was a bunch of winners of that. I didn't list all the names.  Because there was a ton of him.  And the principal said that he's having student sign up for the March 21st eight. The two at Stevens High School, New Hampshire State student voice conference.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: At his as well for Stevens High School on December 7th. Come on out to Stevens High School for a basketball game of the police versus the Claremont Fire. It's

[10638-92] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (ASR 'Tala Sullivan | 2019-12-04
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: even some leftovers. And also, on the Tuesday before vacation, I, Stevens did a surprise visit from big Red, who is the master on Tuesday with everyone, and he was showing off his new look big Red Greta students as they grew in the busses.
TEXT> He also stared some students and then came back and walked around doing flats to different classrooms. He danced and he even wrote on some right boards and bed. Read enjoyed his day at Stevens, and looked forward to his flight back to the school for basketball and to show the history of spirit many flats and which were planned for December. And on December 19th, this was just sent to me. There was the children's concert for all of the students from all the elementary schools in unity, who will be at the high school to enjoy 45 minute,  performances from the abandoned choir for the holiday concerts.  Should have a Valley Regional attached. Mr.. His idea to present on that and I have a challenge for Mr.. Tempesta.  He's already seen it, and he's always shaking his head, but it's a challenge, and now you have to do it.  So. Well, I'm making it a challenge today.  Well, you can,  So I don't know if I if you guys saw. But on Monday, this Winfield, school district assistant superintendent called off a snow day in a very interesting way, and he's deigned over a million views for it, and I thought I would share it with you.
NEXT> Unidentified: How do you move your mouse? Just don't. You were sleeping up here.

[10638-116] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: adults that have graduated that may or may not have a high school diploma. We want to give them some machine tool skills, and they give us some money to make that happen. And there's a flier in front of you that kind of highlights.
TEXT> We've got this class coming up in January, and we'd love to get the word out more on that and recruit students for that program. And then finally, we talk about our increased building use, which is kind of in conjunction to some of our partnerships, and then the outside resources and relationship building with regional businesses. Throughout the year, a lot of the regional businesses were helping us out with different uniform needs. The Burn Foundation has been very generous with us, so that we can provide uniforms for students that may not have it, as well as another building projects that we've been working on. You know, I think one of the greatest things is using Facebook is a great tool. It's a free tool for us. And we've been we've got our Facebook page. We post a lot of pictures when our students do some great things. We post a lot of articles. This is a good opportunity for us to not necessarily educate students about what we offer, but the parents in the community. There still is this notion that college is the pathway. We know that the pendulum swing in the other way, and why not think about another alternative to college, or having an employer pay for your college opportunity by getting some skills here.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Our our plumbing graduates will graduate and make 40 to $50,000 with overtime their first year out of high school, which is an enormously great salary if you live in

[10638-120] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: is one of the sheds they built last year, some really nice quality. And this is mostly the students building this. And that's what's interesting is that the students, with limited guidance from the instructor, are taking these projects on and really making things happen.
TEXT> What you'll see here is a couple of that's our plumbing program on the left hand side. That's Mr. Craig, our instructor there. He is working with Jarret who's a senior this year. And Jared is looking at a blower. And they're working on why those things come to break. I believe that that came from somebody in the community that just that Arnold knew, that Mr. Craig knew, and they were just trying to see what could they do to. It's an old one. And they broke it down and took a look to see what they can fix. A lot of our work in the community here is repair work and not new work. So the instructors and I have talked a lot about what we can do to teach our students about repairing things instead of building new, because there's not a lot of new building happening in our community down here on the right, you'll see Senator Maggie Hassan, and she is with Scott Pope. And she came through last year and took a tour that was a also in the newspaper. So it was nice. And she got to really meet with some students and talked about the Minchin shop and what we do there. Culinary is always a great program. I hope you enjoyed the cookies today. The culinary students made those fresh today.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: They cannot go back to the kitchen so please take them home. That would be great. As you can see, we do some catering and there's a couple of students.

[10638-122] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: sat down and we looked at the options, and one of the things that came forward to us was the Kiwanis of Claremont. And they said, this is a kids program, and we're really happy. At the time, they said, we our limit is $250.
TEXT> That's all we can give to a group. I said, great, that's what I'm going to ask for. And they came back with a check for $3,000 for us to run that program. And then we got we were able to get some t shirts for the kids, which is great marketing opportunity to let people know what we're doing.  And an occasion, I'll see one in the community. So this was the culinary summer program for sixth, seventh and eighth graders. This is them working on some cupcakes at the end of the week. Each program was supposed to do a display or do some sort of presentation, and we invited the parents in. Of course, the culinary one went over big because we fed everybody that day, so it was kind of fun. One of my favorite pictures is that's Chef K and she is teaching them how to make pasta. That's one of her specialties. And now that my daughter learned how to do it she's making it all the time for us. Fresh pasta. And we don't need any more carbs. But that's another story. But it's a great opportunity and a great learning skill.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Here we have our. This was also our summer program where we had the carpentry program. Students were to make a birdhouse first. And so we kind of assess their

[10638-123] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: one of her specialties. And now that my daughter learned how to do it she's making it all the time for us. Fresh pasta. And we don't need any more carbs. But that's another story. But it's a great opportunity and a great learning skill.
TEXT> Here we have our. This was also our summer program where we had the carpentry program. Students were to make a birdhouse first. And so we kind of assess their skills and kind of see where they got comfortable with it. And then the next level during that week, they all made picnic tables as a team, and the picnic tables were donated. They got to put their name on them, and we donated the CMS there in the back area. So it's kind of a treat for the students. There's a lot of ownership when students make it themselves, and that provides that pride. And on the right we also had a computer accounting program. There's two students working together  on, it could have been a PowerPoint that could be doing Excel, all sorts of fun things. With the inmate program, we held a little graduation. This is what it looked like when we eventually got it out to Sullivan County Nursing Home. Like you probably have seen this Michael out there, it's a pretty big it's a 20ft, almost 20ft wide, and it's at its diameter. And there were nine inmates to start with us and we went up with four.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: For whatever reason, they either dropped out of the program or weren't allowed to be in the program anymore. We did a little graduation, and quite frankly, it was very

[10638-128] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: were learning about accounting. So our enrollment, which is a been a blessing for us. We've grown. In 1819 last year we had 58 rolled in CTE programs. Usually when there's a change in leadership and change in instructors, we see a loss of students.
TEXT> I've talked to my other CTE directors, and they see that often there's some alignment with the previous instructors and when they retire, we were so we were starting around 58. And in addition. So this year we have 82 enrolled in our CTE programs. Now that would have to be if they're in one of our plumbing or the construction carpentry or one of these CT programs that I just had on the board. Then we have about 516 enrolled in our intro courses, or we have a culinary program now that we're doing two classes a day quarter classes, and that's 20 students in each, and that's usually meal prep. It's baking, little experiences like that. When the Family Consumer Science program closed, we picked up all their loose students that wanted to take just. Of course, we're treating it as an intro course for us to kind of get students and experience, and maybe they want to work in culinary, maybe they won't. So that 516 has an asterisks and that's really about the students may be taking more than one course here.  And one of the things we want to see happen is a lot of our students are telling us, hey, when I take a course there, when I'm in one of our  programs, I just want to stay here.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: And so we're working on a tech English course right now. We're working with the high school with Miss Berry. I've had her working on that with me. And so

[10638-130] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: some accreditation work that they had with the CTE programs in the state. And I actually reviewed their accounting program, and it was really impressed that they could finish it in one year. It's tied to Southern New Hampshire University and students get six credits.
TEXT> Now, what we're finding is if we look at our class now, we've got, I think 6 or 7 students in that course right now, and a number of them are seniors now. They would be able to walk away. One of the things that's a challenge, including my own son. I said, why don't you take a tech course and then you can learn how to fix and build stuff? Dad, they're not honors courses  or second level two classes, our honors courses. This would allow it to be an honors course, and students could take accounting, which is a basic skill everybody should kind of have an understanding with. So my thought was we could recruit seniors in it because it'd be a one year program and they would be CTE completely. Plus with Snhu, they would give us six credit hours like a running start with them.  So that's our plan. If we could do that, we would look at adding a finance program for one year. One of the things that the industry in the insurance industry is saying, hey, we're all gray hairs. We need people, young people, thinking about financial services and working in the financial services industry, not selling insurance, but maybe processing insurance.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Maybe it's working at banks talking about loans. Right now there's also a big push 20 I think it's 20 States have certified that you have to have a personal

[10638-136] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: decide to go to some of these places. Now, there's rules in regards to some of these. And the our school counselors are efficient and we've shared those that we've talked to that so that students can really get an understanding of what's going on.
TEXT> Finally, we got the partnership agreement. This expires in 2022. I know that there's discussions about this amongst ourselves. We've had, you know, the guarantee six seats for each school for each program. So Newport sends six kids or we have six seats per class that we hold on to for Newport kids as well as for our students. And we've got 22 students from Stevens High School going over to learn welding, and they have a welding instructor that's new this year. Really great guy. But but it was a slow start. So a couple of students that were going for welding came back and took machine tool. So it's it's those little hiccups that we go through. But about 2122 students are heading over there. And we have we I think we get 6 or 7 students from Newport, obviously smaller school. A couple of the problems we're seeing is the transportation issue. It's funny because I was talking to this dad, we had our region ten meeting, and this dad says, you know, I went through the auto mechanics program, I went to Stevens High School and I was going to Newport. And it's the same problem 20 years ago as it is today.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Transportation, scheduling. The two districts are two different districts. You know, they're not on the same schedule. So when there is a professional development day over there, we're in session.

[10638-146] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes several voices (board members, an adminis | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: that on to. I could probably work and see if I can work with the alumni association on that. You know, that's something we could talk about some more, but I, I, you know, Mr. McGowan, do you know if the high school tracks that.
TEXT> I believe the guidance department does do some tracking of that because we do report out on on our students that are going to colleges and things such as that. Yeah. So they would do that.
NEXT> Jason Benware: But that would be a survey. Yes. We as good as the participants in the survey.

[10638-154] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Go ahead. I was going to pick on you after, but I'm picking on you now. The second thing is, is what is your research tell you about CTE classes, related to the medical profession.
TEXT> So one of the partnerships that we have with Newport, they have the medical side of it. So they have the LNA program. Okay. So we that's the partnership that we have with them. So we send six students over. And this year they couldn't get an instructor. So they wound up partnering with a company that provides the training. So it's at night. And they let all the students that we had, and I think we had 10 or 12 that were interested to take it. So that's that's been really great for us. And now we're talking to Sullivan County Nursing Home, the nursing administrator there. How do we get our students in there so that they can use that as a lab? I think they're starting in a program because that is the big one right now, is the lab is trying to get more A's because that's the the gateway, right. Once you get in that, the next step could be an R.N. or an LPN kind of position. But yeah.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So doctor.

[10638-171] Cassie Burke | Public commenter, Ward 3, parent (ASR 'Kasey Burke' [51], 'Cassie' [68 | 2019-12-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Although late in the agenda, citizens, come open the forum up for citizens comments at this time. About an hour later than normal. Come ahead.
TEXT> Hello. I'm Cassie Burke again. Ward three. Again. I wasn't expecting to say anything. I just want everybody to know that I've sat here and I've got so much information about all these great programs, but I want you guys to know I have three kids with IEPs,  and these are great for. Children who are more. More advanced than others. And I would just I don't know if it's that we aren't getting the information where we know what programs are available for our children, but our children go to school  and they go, what's for me afterwards? Like my daughter, she's in the cosmetology program, but she's going for an attendance certificate, so it's not really doing her any purpose except for her own needs. You know what I mean? Like, so, yeah, these programs are in place, but if they're not able to use them outside. So I would just. I don't know if because of what we talked about earlier, if there's a way to like, show what we're doing for the special ed kids to kind of show what they can accomplish in high school as well, because I think right now we're on a barrier point where we I really like all those programs sounded great, and they really did.
NEXT> Cassie Burke: But I'm sitting there and I'm thinking to myself, I have three children, and none of them would use any of those programs or qualify for any of those programs.

[10638-180] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-12-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I've asked a few. It's tough to get the message out. I definitely understand that. But when you have someone right here. So we're not going to let you leave to volunteer you up here. So, so it's it's so critical to have, that perspective.
TEXT> I myself, I'm a parent of a severely special needs child. And I know what it's like to find a program, build a program advocate.  All all of those things. And we  feel confident with the outreach already. And then obviously with partners,  that we're going to get things that we we're going to create programs that can really address the needs locally of all of our kids. So, and you'll be hearing more about that to in the outreach. One of the things that we've been up against that is a fair criticism about the communication of all these things is we we just have a lot going on right now. We have 14 committees and subgroups. We're putting a strategic plan together. We're assembling all of that. And we we have ongoing meetings right now, which we'd love for you to participate in any one at home to. I'm not just speaking to the audience members who are here in the room with us. For all of those, please look online and feel free to contact us and we will put you right in the throes of all of that work.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We'd love to have the perspective and the help with that. So those are the biggest things we we have two visits set to places that were going out to.

[10638-181] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-12-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: home to. I'm not just speaking to the audience members who are here in the room with us. For all of those, please look online and feel free to contact us and we will put you right in the throes of all of that work.
TEXT> We'd love to have the perspective and the help with that. So those are the biggest things we we have two visits set to places that were going out to. And we're also going to tour with our outreach director, Dave Clark,  who's done an amazing job for us for years, knows every program in the area. But we're also going to extend kind of  our our tour group as we go to look at those and really kind of survey to see what we need for what our kids need in this community as well. So, that's that's what we're doing. So we'd love, love to have anyone out there.  And I'll be putting out an email blast about this soon.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So questions to the superintendent. Thank you. Thank you. Let's move on to policy approval. We have four policies in front of us tonight. Looks like. 3 or 4.

[10639-90] Unidentified | SAU 6 Board member (Unity), male; gives Unity update and votes nay on  | 2019-12-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: I think that's it for the Claremont update. Yeah. All right. Pass it on to unity, either Prudence or Raj.
TEXT> Well, I applaud Claremont for all the the work that you guys are doing. You certainly carry the yeoman's load.  So relative to what we're doing, I'm just going to provide a few updates on things I presented at our last meeting. We're still involved in finalizing the school board contribution to the Unity Master plan.  It's pretty much done, but I think it just needs a couple of approval steps. The principal search. We now have a committee. We will bring the committee together for,  just an introductory meeting at our unity school board meeting next week. Right now we have two school board members. We have two teachers. The superintendent will be on the committee. We have, a parent, we have a community member, and we have a student, a former student. I the one of the student is somebody who is currently in high school but went all the way through Unity Elementary and we thought could provide a good perspective from the student side of things. So it's I think it'll be a good committee and we'll kick that off next week and hopefully have a few meetings early in January to get that search going.
NEXT> Unidentified: We did not start our budget. We will start the budget process on the 19th. Because the Claremont budget was superseded, ours, as did the unity, has a bit smaller

[10649-9] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-12-12
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you, Attorney Appleton. The moderator now recognizes Superintendent Michael Tempesta.
TEXT> The thing that I would like to to talk about, to reiterate from the last meeting, for those of you in the audience who weren't here, is that the purpose for  for using this money for special ed programing  within the district? We have three programs that we kind of have highlighted, and a presentation is on  the website. But the most important of those programs,  the first one is the autism program. Currently there are three students that we almost that that are ready to go out by the end of this year in this with this fiscal money. Each one of those students placements would cost on average,  $90,000.  We want to build this program as soon as possible for those students not to go out to the tune of about $270,000, and also to bring back some identified students  about the same number three that could come back that are identified. The success of the pride program that we also have, if we need another classroom,  that maple that program this year already  very parallel to what would what happened the previous spring, I think  I believe the board voted to you $630,000 of money to have that program, and so far already just so so, you know, with confidence, two students have come back in the tuitions for that  is  there was 90,000, 65,000 depending on the second one is rated as the time that they came back.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: They didn't they weren't back for the whole year. But that's 155 000. And if all of the students then there are currently nine students in that program. If all

[10649-10] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-12-12
PREV> Michael Tempesta: money to have that program, and so far already just so so, you know, with confidence, two students have come back in the tuitions for that is there was 90,000, 65,000 depending on the second one is rated as the time that they came back.
TEXT> They didn't they weren't back for the whole year. But that's 155 000. And if all of the students then there are currently nine students in that program. If all the other seven students  went out, that would be another $500,000. That would go about $700,000 saved the program. We're hoping to do the same thing with this one time money. Okay, that and that's that's what we want to do. The third program is  looking at an alternative  high school program to reduce the, the dropout rate at Stevens High, and that that would be our third priority for this money.  Not that they're not all very important to do, but we would do them in immediate order of the autism. And then the second pride classroom and then the high school, just because of the,  the impact that would have on the largest number of students for the longest length of time, meaning those kids in the autistic population in the pride program, they're in elementary school. And if we keep them in district longer, we save more. What I really want to emphasize, and we're just talking we're here.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We understand the gravity of the tax situation and how, and we're being very respectful of how how we use taxpayer money for this program. If we if we don't

[10649-14] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-12-12
PREV> Samantha Bailey: You mentioned the pride programs that talking about a second pride program. So I heard younger school and older students. What's the transition? What's your plan for the future transition from the younger to the middle before help at the high school.
TEXT> Right now, we looked at the success of the pride program, and we know our numbers in at the time that we had to prepare this. Once the money came back,  this unanticipated money came back from the governor. We we looked at our prioritized needs that Mr. Nester and his team have already been putting together. And, we don't have an immediate plan with that, this money for the middle school. But we do know that many of those the range of the students in the elementary,  we have early elementary and we have late elementary kids will be following into the middle school as well. So,  we don't have an immediate plan with this money right now for that.  Keep in mind that we're talking about three programs for 650,000,  which will go fast. We want to be very judicious in what will have the biggest bang for the buck right away, you know,  being respectful of the taxpayer, but also to keep the students in for the longest period of time. That's why we're focusing on the elementary first.
NEXT> Samantha Bailey: So I'd.

[10649-32] Daryl | Public commenter, Ward 1, longtime Claremont School District employee  | 2019-12-12
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. Anyone wishing to speak in favor? Appear. Yes.
TEXT> Daryl Ward one. So I've worked for the Claremont School District. Since 1970. Eight, and I've done it in many capacities, both regular education and special education. So I've seen programs come and go out of this district. And the reason many of the programs that have come over all of these years went was because they were band aid approaches. We didn't have any type of infrastructure for them. They were really lacking. And so they were just quick Band-Aid approaches.  One of the programs you heard about tonight was the pride program. Well, this is not a band aid approach. This is actually a program that's being successful. It has clear entry and exit criteria. It has an infrastructure, is well staffed, and it's a program that's making a difference in the lives of the students who go to school here. We need to keep our kids in district. You know, we heard  Mr. Tempesta say, some of these kids have to drive, not drive. Some of these kids are transported an hour away from their neighborhood school.  I know myself I would want to have to travel an hour before I got to school,  go to school all day, and then try to drive and he traveled another hour home.
NEXT> Daryl: We have to keep our kids in our community. I sat at IEP meetings with parents. I am not a parent of special needs child. I've never walked in the

[10649-33] Daryl | Public commenter, Ward 1, longtime Claremont School District employee  | 2019-12-12
PREV> Daryl: of these kids are transported an hour away from their neighborhood school. I know myself I would want to have to travel an hour before I got to school, go to school all day, and then try to drive and he traveled another hour home.
TEXT> We have to keep our kids in our community.  I sat at IEP meetings with parents. I am not a parent of special needs child. I've never walked in the shoes of parents with special needs.  But what I can tell you is I sit at tables. These parents  and all they want is for their kids to be accepted. They want their kids to be part of the community. They want their kids to pay, invited to birthday parties. And those are things that parents of non-disabled children take for granted. I never had to worry about that with my children, but I've watched parents cry because their children are suited. When we continue to send kids out of district, they get excluded more and more. It's a very tough decision that schools have to make to send kids out. And the reason we send students out is because we don't have the programs here to properly support them  and isolate them further from your community. Sending a student out of district is so far down the continuum on a least restrictive environment, so we have to keep that in mind. We have to keep them home. The autism program has experience with an autism program is familiar to me. Time. Oh, okay. I'll.
NEXT> Unidentified: Anyone wishing to speak against the program? The one article. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of the article. In front. Along.

[10649-36] Cassie Burke | Public commenter, Ward 3, parent (ASR 'Kathy Burke for three'; the sam | 2019-12-12
PREV> Cassie Burke: here. I own my own home, I pay the taxes, I get it, but how can I look at my son and say, sorry, dude, I get it, you're autistic. But guess what? The taxpayers wanted money more than your education. And you know what?
TEXT> My son starts. My son plays football. Most autistic kids can't play sports. My son plays football. He has played since third grade.  He has friends that he has grown up with forever. He was born here. And to just sit here and talk about money, I understand that we're asking a lot, but he is being considered for OB district  and he's not alone and there's going to be more. And if we don't do it now,  then guess what? We're going to do it later. Because the parents  feel that our children need to be here along with everyone else.
NEXT> Unidentified: And anyone. Wishing to speak against the article, anyone who's spoken already and wishes to speak against the act. Yes. Are you a registered voter? No. I live in Claremont,

[10649-37] Unidentified | School District Moderator (presides; not named on the recording) | 2019-12-12
PREV> Cassie Burke: considered for OB district and he's not alone and there's going to be more. And if we don't do it now, then guess what? We're going to do it later. Because the parents feel that our children need to be here along with everyone else.
TEXT> And anyone. Wishing to speak against the article, anyone who's spoken already and wishes to speak against the act. Yes. Are you a registered voter? No. I live in Claremont, though I own a house. I registered voter. All right. Anyone any registered voter wishing to speak against the article or wish you speak for a second time? Please come to the podium. You were only. Mentioned. That we. Could have a question, too. Can we ask questions? Yes. Okay. Because I don't want to speak in favor or against at this point, number of students that we will have in district, and the need for exactly what we're going to have to have. To educate these these children. I'm okay. I'm like, Frank, I'm a businessman. And if. I. Can dole out a little bit of money or I wasn't. I'm retired now.  Oh, and and it returns to me. I'm all in favor of that. But I don't want to vote for this. And then in three years, say, oh, we need $6 million to keep this program going because we're growing so big. We have so many students in. Somebody answer that question for me. Thank you. I'm not sure if it would be frank or the superintendent would like to address that question.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: With the superintendent. Sure. So in terms in terms. Of needing to do a build out or get a building or things like that, we're confident that we can, the

[10649-40] Unidentified | School District Moderator (presides; not named on the recording) | 2019-12-12
PREV> Michael Tempesta: personal experience with it being the parent of a disabled son, and I'm confident that we can really build a strong program, particularly because of the amazing staff that we already have. Okay. We will we will succeed with this and best serve the students.
TEXT> Thank you, Mister Tempesta. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of the article or anyone having a question? Yeah. The state doesn't. Here's our view. Every time there's a budget that they can't afford to spend on education. And I understand that our taxes are high in Claremont, but this this program to me, anyone who is concerned about money and saving money, Claremont  should know on this because this is going to our district. Placement costs are the thing that you can't control and you can't not do it. So this program is going to help us alleviate that cost going down the road. It's going to bring a program to Claremont that's going to benefit our kids. It's going to help parents like this poor woman here keep her her kid in history. And it's going to save us money in the long run. So if you really want your taxes to go down. Oh, yes. If you if you don't want your taxes to go down and you want to be stuck burdened with ad district placements going on forever, and they're going to if you don't take a program like this, then you people have have created and it's already being successful and funded. Instead of wanting to stick $650,000 new pocket one year and go for the rest of years playing, paying outrageous out of district placements and not being fair, the kids then vote against it.
NEXT> Unidentified: But I don't see. It's no wonder to me. You have to vote about your taxes going down the road. Thank you Tracy. Question question question. Vocational education is. There's

[10649-43] Unidentified | Public commenter asking about high school vocational and life-skills p | 2019-12-12
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We can get that here.
TEXT> But why haven't we? I've been asking all year. Every time I ask, I'm told there's no money. We got money. Blessed. You. You're wanting to invest in our kids. These kids are getting out of high school. They want jobs you're talking about. They can't go to birthday parties. They can't get jobs. Let's, let's let's include these guys, too. In the high school kids. Okay?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So I can answer. I can. Answer that. So, when you talk about the the time and how quickly we had to act once this money was freed up,

[10649-54] Unidentified | School District Moderator (presides; not named on the recording) | 2019-12-12
PREV> Unidentified: the middle section, count the left, the right hand section, and then I will have you write down your votes and then switch sides and recount these. Hold up your card saying you're a registered voter. If you're in favor of this article, please stand.
TEXT> Mr.. Poker. Mr.. If you could come over to the side and compare your numbers, and then we will have those close to the  article stand after they come up to the positive number. We're going to do the nose. Now,  all those against the Attica. Please stand and show your registered. Voter card. I almost forgot. I almost forgot. Mr. Paul cast Mr. Scott he encounters tonight. The final vote was 70. Yes. 12. No. Yes, it's had it. That concludes tonight's meeting. On behalf of the school board, I want to thank you for your participation in tennis tonight. Tonight? I got cut short.
NEXT> 

[10675-107] Frank Sprague | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont School Board Chair) | 2020-01-02
PREV> Unidentified: Do you want to speak, Holmes? Yeah, I'll.
TEXT> I'll start. Okay. The.  Donna. Of course I can say I. But Donna did 99% of the work. Give him credit where credit is due.  I went through these and, kind of perused through the policies. Was given a big, fairly substantial stack of  optional, recommended and required policies from the New Hampshire School Board Association. Some of the some of the required policies, already exist in a either in Claremont or in unity. So, and they were specific to school language. So one of the things I went through and looked at was I immediately called out policies that were  were talking about students and teachers and parents, because I can't think of a context under which this board  deals with students  or parents or teachers. Those those policies are covered by the  Claremont policy or the unity policy. There are a number of policies, however, that do our very specific to say, supervision of the of the superintendent  quorums, the makeup of the board, the ethical, ethical practices. So there are some that are very, very clear. Clearly have to do with the s a you. I think it would be helpful if people went through these and looked. I may have missed some references to students, may have missed some references to teachers. But I could not come up in my mind a context in which this board would have any, dealings with, with those groups. So, this was edited by by me, myself and I.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And so I want other people to, to certainly go through it and look at it. And, and my purpose was not to, hijack any kind of a process that

[10683-6] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (first name on record; surname pe | 2020-01-08
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: The elementary.
TEXT> School is the beneficiary of this year of the Cliff year of the book award, which was a $25,000 grant and has provided a phenomenal amount of resources to our school and to students and families.  Because we were eligible for that grant this year, we were able to apply for this mini grant. So this is our art teacher, Heather Leon Bruno. The design of it is to think about ways to build culture and climate in your school. And so our students will be designing.  If you think of like rocks with positive messages, those kinds of things,  and cement to enhance our school environment in a positive nature.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We also had two two separate, checks for the lunch debt. One was $50 and one was $100. We had acceptance of the Kiwanis donation for the Full Circle Farm

[10683-52] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (first name on record; surname pe | 2020-01-08
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So we will. All right. And now it says Disney Elementary School. I'm not sure what that means for a you know you know. All right.
TEXT> So our first is a quick apology for our casual attire. Today was the launch of winter program at the elementary schools. And I'd love when we're done to just kind of give you a glimpse of what that was like today. It was a pretty spectacular day, but  I have with me three amazing teachers tonight Beth Bonneville, Shelby Klink, and Allie Howard. This is the Disney kindergarten team, and tonight we wanted to come and just give you a very brief overview  of what play based kindergarten is starting to look like a Disney elementary school. So we ask that you just remember we're a work in progress. But we, as you know, the state of New Hampshire has moved to play based kindergarten. And so we're taking time to to be very intentional in thinking about what should that look like for programing for our students. So they have prepared a presentation for you, and we'll answer any questions that we can after.
NEXT> Unidentified: Hi.

[10683-60] Unidentified | Unidentified - Disnard kindergarten teacher (Shelby Klink or Allie How | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: Learning social and social skills is a huge piece that comes in play based. It's not just, you know, math and reading and writing. It's not any of that curriculum. It's the social skills that, you know, can get lost in the shuffle of curriculum.
TEXT> And this was actually with upper grades, so I don't remember which grade this was. But we have buddies that come down to our classroom. We're in kindergarten, so we might have a fifth grade or a third grade classroom that comes with us. So they might read to the kids, our children might read to them. Just having those interactions with each other. So popsicle stick this is I think this is a morning activity that starts out just again, free play. Let the child decide. You know, we're pairing uppercase letters and lowercase letters, even colors to colors. There's so much that comes into this this play. Again, we're spelling a safe word two and not just using it in paper and pencil, actually building it with the blocks and looking at the shapes. Sorry, I was just looking at the shapes more of a more little conventional, you know, you have your writing papers  and again, just but you're sorting letters. What is not s? What is s what can you do again, that open ended.
NEXT> Beth Bonneville: Much more of the visual discrimination between all of their letters and the, the focus of that week. Yeah.

[10683-70] Beth Bonneville | Kindergarten teacher, Disnard Elementary School | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: a teacher is just telling them what they need to learn and what they learn, you know, kids were like, oh, my teacher told me this, but, you know, for them to explore it on their own makes them feel more responsible for their learning.
TEXT> So we took time to kind of talk to our kids about what they like about play based learning. Of course, for most of my kids, this is their first experience with school. So this is, you know, school for them.  But one of my kids said that they like reading centers because they get to choose where they want to play. How I structure reading centers in my room. I think most of us do the same thing is that they there's lots of different choices,  and they my only expectation is they have to make it to all four by the end of the week so they can spend, you know, all 40 minutes on one and just do one each day and go back, or I have a lot of kids that kind of go in between. But they that's the only expectation. So it's really that they're exploring things on their time, but they're taking more ownership in what they're doing. I've noticed a big change  from this year to last year that now that we're much more play based, that it's much more engaging for our kids. It's not, you know, as Beth and Ali been saying, pencil to paper, you know, doing worksheets.
NEXT> Beth Bonneville: My background is in early childhood education and my master's is in curriculum instruction. And I did my thesis in play based learning and project based learning at this age.

[10683-74] Unidentified | Unidentified - Disnard kindergarten teacher (Shelby Klink or Allie How | 2020-01-08
PREV> Beth Bonneville: But coming the new.
TEXT> Age, becoming new first grade, I'm sure you've heard, you know, we're pushing our kids too hard. So then for New Hampshire to take a step back and kind of say, no, you know, five year olds do need more play in their in their life, and they can still get all of their Common Core curriculum. Everything can still be incorporated in play.
NEXT> Beth Bonneville: And this is not, you know, a big new initiative. A lot of states are going this way as well, kind of, you know, taking a step back and, enforcing

[10683-75] Beth Bonneville | Kindergarten teacher, Disnard Elementary School | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: for New Hampshire to take a step back and kind of say, no, you know, five year olds do need more play in their in their life, and they can still get all of their Common Core curriculum. Everything can still be incorporated in play.
TEXT> And this is not, you know, a big new initiative. A lot of states are going this way as well, kind of, you know, taking a step back and, enforcing a new play based law. And, you know, I find that it's been very beneficial for my kids this year, especially, my our final site is, you know, one of my students just really likes playtime because it's fun. And, I mean, I think that's just, you know,  the the biggest takeaway from all of this is that we want this. Yes, it's school, but we want it to be funding meaningful for our kids. And you know, we spend you know, our on ends in during planning time, before or after school, during our prep times to put a lot of work into on these play based centers. This is not something, you know, that we run off the copier into, but we are all firm believers in play based learning, and we wouldn't be standing up here telling you all this if we didn't fully support it. So this is play based learning within our school.
NEXT> Unidentified: And thank you.

[10683-85] Unidentified | Unidentified - Disnard kindergarten teacher (Shelby Klink or Allie How | 2020-01-08
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I've.
TEXT> Had I've had parents actually tell me,  how much growth they've seen in their child in just a couple months that we've  been in school, which is huge for us because, you know, they're the they're the experts of their child. They know really what they're seeing. And, you know, they've told me that they think that kindergarten is the most one of the most important grades starting out. It's the first grade that they experienced school. And to be able to already have such a, you know, love of learning. They're excited to see that foster and, you know, build as they go.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Very important.

[10683-93] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (first name on record; surname pe | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> There's no way around it.  Yeah, that's exactly what you'll see in these three classrooms. But you'll see active learning.  A couple of things I would just chime in on. From an administrator's perspective, you can't go wrong walking into a kindergarten class, so you get an open invitation to anyone. If you're having a bad day, you need to visit kindergarten. It truly is the place to be. The other thing that I think is. Important to know is, as we mentioned, the more choice kids have, the more involved they are. And you'll walk in, for example, Heather, for your question about boys. It's not uncommon to see boys in the in the housekeeping area with babies or cooking, and those are the things we want to see. We want we want these things to be open ended because we know the more open ended, the more possibilities, and we don't want to limit a child's experience. So one of the other pieces I would add to that would be the questioning techniques of these three teachers.  So it is no surprise that in any given classroom you have students that have not, previous to kindergarten, maybe even had the opportunity to play with other children, and you've had others who have been in preschool for 1 or 2 years.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And so the experiences they come with are very vast, and that is a huge continuum to meet in one classroom. And so when you watch some of these activities

[10683-94] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (first name on record; surname pe | 2020-01-08
PREV> Melissa Lewis: three teachers. So it is no surprise that in any given classroom you have students that have not, previous to kindergarten, maybe even had the opportunity to play with other children, and you've had others who have been in preschool for 1 or 2 years.
TEXT> And so the experiences they come with are very vast, and that is a huge continuum to meet in one classroom. And so when you watch some of these activities and you listen to the educators that are facilitating those,  their language has tended to change from, as you heard, this is one. What's this number one, show me one to well, how many do you think you have there? Well, what if I added one more to that? How many would you have there? Oh, talk to your friend. How many does your friend have? How many more will you need to get to what your friend has? And so you're able to vary. The language you're using is also varying the activity for the children. And so the academics that are involved are being differentiated constantly for kids, no matter where they are in the learning spectrum. It's a pretty amazing site. The final thing I would add is the best part. As parents, we all know we asked the magic question of what did you learn in school today? And you know many times, or what did you do in school today? Nothing. I have the privilege of being in the hallway when the kindergartners come down at the end of the day.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And if I say to them, how is kindergarten today? I don't get good or fun. I hear I found essays in the sand, or there were ones hiding in

[10683-109] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in the chair's absence) | 2020-01-08
PREV> Melissa Lewis: Thank you guys.
TEXT> All right, Tyler, we're going to move on to you for your student report.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So I do.

[10683-111] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (chair: 'Tyler';  | 2020-01-08
PREV> Jason Benware: So I do.
TEXT> Have a presentation that I'm going to be sharing with you. So a little background of what has happened to well, to today I got the opportunity to attend, the  Student leadership summit and New Hampshire at Kinsley Regional High School.  And this summit was about the negative and positive impacts of social media and our lives, as well as how we can implement,  mental health  and, how we can use mental health days to help our,  fellow peers in our high schools and around the state. We also talked about how to amplify student voices at the summit as well. So this is from the summit today. I'm going to go through all of it, but I'm gonna go to some slides that are key points. This was sent to me by the, Sarah Berlin, who's part of the life of an athlete team. Which is part of the energy AA, which is our sports scene. So we had it like it was eight to new today.  We had a we talked about different things. So we talked about the student, the,  the student depression is on the rise.  These are the statistics showing  how many people,  have had a depressive episode in the last 12 months.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: This was taken. I'm not sure what year, but the source is from the psychology. And it shows a recent spike in many ages. And this is due to social

[10683-152] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Michael Tempesta: had a very busy time. I also put this this one, a scene in there with all the budget things that were going. That's a little bit. This is the property line of bluff, in the trees that are overhanging that when we vetted another.
TEXT> It's a little thing. It's not a little thing, actually, to talk to the neighbor with the size of that tree that's overhanging, literally. But we we had to vet all the budget items. Going on as to what we would have in a takes a lot of time, but that is something that is on next year's budget to to take care of those things for safety and things like that just just takes a lot of time. So. Not used to this computer. Oh. Look at that. All right. So that that was my tacky Christmas sweater. And the all I wanted for Christmas was to stop negotiating. Okay. So. And we did that. It was a good process. It was a we've been doing it for months, though. It was very time consuming. And I would like to publicly thank and acknowledge the amazing efforts of, of  of a financial director, Richard Seaman, to really recreate a lot of documents, many hours, late nights. We didn't have a lot to go on, a lot of historical to go on. So it it really was an amazing effort to to run all these numbers in some of the things that we, used during the process.  So today, I had the privilege of going with director Nestor and outplacement specialist Dave Cochrane to  some two places where we currently send our students.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Outplacement, out placements that were in Vermont. Okay. So the first thing that we noticed when we toured these facilities, it really confirmed our that we we think we can

[10683-153] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Michael Tempesta: amazing effort to to run all these numbers in some of the things that we, used during the process. So today, I had the privilege of going with director Nestor and outplacement specialist Dave Cochrane to some two places where we currently send our students.
TEXT> Outplacement, out placements that were in Vermont. Okay. So the first thing that we noticed when we toured these facilities, it really confirmed our that we we think we can do similar programs more locally. But I got to be honest with you, after going there and back and being in the car for,  the almost two hours, hour and 45 minutes, you get a sense for what our students do. Our most significant students do every day. Because that that is the we're just it really brought home, at least for me. What? It'll be great to have them in the least restrictive environment in their own neighborhoods, with their with their neighbors and with their peers. Okay. So we have  developed a mr. Nestor and his team. I've developed a parent advisory council, and we have meetings scheduled for the first meeting in a few weeks.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. January 28th at 530 in the teal, room here at the Tech Center. We're going to start going over our program development and things and having outreach. Outreach. A

[10683-155] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Michael Tempesta: not have followed that closely. We know right now that we have three, maybe three definite, maybe four students who are looking to outpace. That would be a significant factor. Okay. They would be going to some of the places like I just mentioned before.
TEXT> Not only is it a long distance to be commuting, but it's a it's a cost of approximately about between 80,000 and $100,000 per placement and transportation. We think we can do it locally. We think the kids that won't go out will be a savings of both 300 okay that are existing, ready to leave the budget, and also that we we  know we have 2 or 3 students ready to come back if we build this so that we're talking six $700,000 swing, that would be a revenue. Ultimately would be a savings and then a potential also for other revenues. If people came here from other, districts, but that that would be down the line if we had a program really, expanding rapidly. So that's what we're looking at doing. In pretty much those are the those are the three things that we've been busy with. Okay. So and excited to report back on. I know that Mr. Nesta has a presentation coming up in February.  I'll also have a presentation of the strategic plan and where we're going in the initiatives and hearing back in that in February as well. So that's been it. All right. Thank you.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Now we're moving on to the first read on policy, Daph. I'm wondering if there's any. Did everybody have a chance to review it?

[10683-216] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-08
PREV> Danielle Skinner: is the number of free students the state or the number of students state will qualify as free. The rest of them are considered paid. So that means is the reimbursement amount for that number. The free students. The state will give you full reimbursement.
TEXT> So 75% of the kids roughly.
NEXT> Unidentified: Roughly.

[10683-218] Danielle Skinner | Food Program Coordinator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: Roughly.
TEXT> Yeah. So if you have any of your kids participating states going to cover 75%, the other 5%, the school would have to pay for.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Any idea what the participation is at the bluff right now.

[10683-250] Danielle Skinner | Food Program Coordinator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I think it's so baffling to me that this is the first time we're really hearing this part of it. But anyway, continue on D.
TEXT> So last year. But for example, bluffs breakfast participation with free for all students. Not even in this program was only 75%. So even last year with the free breakfast, it wasn't.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Just that because they were that I know because my kids went there, the breakfasts were brought to the classrooms, at least for a portion of that. And this year

[10683-251] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-08
PREV> Danielle Skinner: So last year. But for example, bluffs breakfast participation with free for all students. Not even in this program was only 75%. So even last year with the free breakfast, it wasn't.
TEXT> Just that because they were that I know because my kids went there, the breakfasts were brought to the classrooms, at least for a portion of that. And this year is different. This year they're actually going down to the cafeteria. I would expect the participation to be less now because a lot of kids don't get there early. Right? So now they get if you want to predict breakfast, you get there at 8 a.m., you walk down to the back of the cafeteria and you eat if you get there, if you're you're one of those kids who shows up five minutes after, you know, or whatever the case may be or whatever, then that's very easy to see why there's not participation, there's a change there. I understand why it's not in the classroom anymore, because that also aid in instruction time and everything else. I get that it's a real pain in the butt, but I mean, I can see why breakfast participation is probably down, at least at that school. I don't know about the other schools as far as lunch participation. You should really look into that better because, I'd like to know the factors there.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: As a numbers have come out. It's the same questions I'm having. It's the same questions he has been asking. And, we and the other part is we need a

[10683-252] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Jason Benware: butt, but I mean, I can see why breakfast participation is probably down, at least at that school. I don't know about the other schools as far as lunch participation. You should really look into that better because, I'd like to know the factors there.
TEXT> As a numbers have come out. It's the same questions I'm having. It's the same questions he has been asking. And, we and the other part is we need a little bit of flexibility in the schedule to ensure the kids can eat, and they don't have to choose between gym class or having breakfast. Breakfast is going to lose out in that case. So we have to find ways of making it easier. And because that was the intent, the intent of the board was we want to buy nutritious meal in the kids breakfast and lunch. We're not succeeding on that right now.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Easier for the kids is not always easier for everybody. See, eye.

[10683-253] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-08
PREV> Richard Seaman: out in that case. So we have to find ways of making it easier. And because that was the intent, the intent of the board was we want to buy nutritious meal in the kids breakfast and lunch. We're not succeeding on that right now.
TEXT> Easier for the kids is not always easier for everybody. See, eye.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: To the ones who are here.

[10683-262] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Real so we can get back on track.
TEXT> Love. What happens is when the kids come in, they, There they go down to the cafeteria. The ones that come in late, they do have stuff for them available in the classroom. So if a kid does come in late, they can still get lunch. So it's not like at 8:00 lunch is shut off. So they are still able to get lunch correct on breakfast. I'm sorry. Yeah. So they are still able to get breakfast.  And there's not a choice because at first when they decided that they were going to go into tech, come out of the classroom and go into the cafeteria. My thought because, you know, spending time in an elementary school personally, myself as a teacher was okay. If my kids had a choice between recess or breakfast, they're going to go outside for recess. But then when I met with Dale, the principal, he said, no, we don't have recess. In the morning, the kids come directly into the building and go to the cafeteria, so there's no choice  between where they go. They all go to the cafeteria, so it eliminates that choice.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: Tracking using the program.

[10683-265] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Who's getting the food?
TEXT> No, no, because they have the cards. The kids have the cards that they use. So it could be a question that we ask. Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: Sorry. I want to say something.

[10683-284] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-08
PREV> Richard Seaman: the smaller procedural and policy issues. So kudos to D, her team and the others and the people from Avi Group on what they did for that one. And we'd be happy to share the report if anyone would like to see it. That's it.
TEXT> So essentially what we're dealing with is, is just another unfunded mandate, really. I mean, the reality of it is, is that we can't and nor should probably should we deny a kid lunch. However, there are certain rules and how what we can give them and what we can't. And the fact is, is that those folks who kind of know that we can't deny their child food, really, there is absolutely nothing to compel them to either send them with their own lunch or to pay for the food. So,   Richard, what I wanted to ask you is, would it be possible for you to come up with a number  on how much it would have cost to feed every kid in the district? Because I hear I know everybody cringes, but I hear people constantly complaining on social media and all that is, we should feed the kids. That should be part of our taxes. So my my suggestion is this I am not necessarily in favor of that. However, let's put it on the warrant. Put a warrant out there at the next voting session. This is what it's going to cost. If you want to vote this in, this is what it's going to cost. And this is what it's going to raise your taxes next year.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Here is the implication of it. If it's so important to our constituents and the people who live in and vote in this town, they'll vote it in and and

[10683-298] Danielle Skinner | Food Program Coordinator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Jason Benware: We still have staff.
TEXT> So that's, So where I said that window of people don't apply and their, their benefits expire and then they apply like a month later when they apply later and they recruit a debt, that debt isn't erased just because they've applied. So that's how we have free accounts that are negative. I can also speak to Jason's question. If we were to continue with the National School lunch program and the breakfast program and the federal food programs, the only way that we can provide meals to all students is if we pay the full price of the lunches, which would mean because we can't just cover the red, we have to cover the $3 lunch price for I. I have talked to the state about this. We'd have to because that is what a student would have to pay is $3. Breakfast is $1.75. If we covered their breakfast, we would have to pay a $1.75. Budgeting reasons. If you want to say that we'll provide 100% of our kids free meals,  you'd have to budget 175 days times roughly 1900 students,  times $4.75 a day, or $5 for high school students. Just to give you a little bit of information there.
NEXT> Unidentified: Carolyn.

[10683-311] Danielle Skinner | Food Program Coordinator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Jason Benware: Got you I just I just think that the, the reasoning of the state and the feds often is hard to wrap my head around. And this is another one of those times.
TEXT> So I what I did call they said that you their specific wording was that you cannot just cover the red if you if you were to say, we are providing meals for all students so that they eat for free, you're paying the full price and that a lot of it has to do with the paid lunch equity tool, which is saying that.
NEXT> Unidentified: We're so is that is. That based.

[10683-363] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in the chair's absence) | 2020-01-08
PREV> Richard Seaman: That into our into our next look.
TEXT> In the amount of waste. This is just my thing. I don't know if I'm cutting you guys off, but the amount of waste, my kids come home and they say, I have to get this in order to get this. But really, my daughter doesn't want to eat that, but she has to get it. And then it goes in the garbage and she's in fourth grade and she said, I don't like throwing food away when I know on the commercials the kids can't have any food. So I think there's a whole lot of.
NEXT> Jason Benware: You gotta have two.

[10683-372] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member; questions food service c | 2020-01-08
PREV> Danielle Skinner: thinking about still being still participating in the federal lunch program where kids would get free or reduced? Or did you mean like we provide a ham sandwich, lunch with veggie sticks and a milk and and the school district is completely paying for that?
TEXT> No. I mean, I thought it would still be within the program, the free and reduced program, that. Meeting right. On Friday or Monday. You get 20 kids at Disney. You know, these ten are the free, these ten want to purchase a lunch or whatever. And you don't identify the kids, obviously, but you get a number of kids that want to buy lunch this week or that are going to have the school lunch. You prepare that many bag. If it's ten kids, you send that, you know, ten bag lunches with enough to make a couple of extra sandwiches, or, you know, someone drops their lunch in a mud puddle and needs, you know, needs a lunch because they don't have one. You have something to give them. But you know that  you get ten kids that won't lunch this week. Or  I mean, it's more than that, but whatever the number may be. And then.
NEXT> Danielle Skinner: Reason why I asked is if you're in the federal program, again, with the guidelines, you have to provide a certain amount of vegetables every week, and you have to

[10683-379] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in the chair's absence) | 2020-01-08
PREV> Jason Benware: with building in 40, 50, whatever $1,000 to cover people who don't want to pay is as a taxpayer and many taxpayers, they're going to go, well, why not me, right? Why why why am I subsidizing this person? Because they don't want to pay.
TEXT> If that's the case, I'm going to stop paying for my kids to eat.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And that's a in and of itself. I fundamentally have a problem with that.

[10683-441] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: And we've also ratified the Paris secretaries and maintenance. Do you want to speak briefly to those?
TEXT> The Paris, again, a critical part of the group that we have working in our classrooms with our kids, we have about 80 to 90 pairs that work with us. And the two areas we were looking at on Paris was to continue to try and make their compensation a little bit more attractive. Starting salaries there, I think, are almost at minimum wage, if not sort of at at, you know, working in food service wages. We also were looking at trying to improve, if possible, the benefits that would be provided to the Paris.  So we modified from the current insurance offering to a more economically attractive to the employer offering. And the cost that we have is it relates to getting this in places between 50 and $80,000. And the reason there's a range, it depends if there are additional pairs that decide to come onto the insurance which is being offered. So it would be in that range. And again, this does not make this an overly competitive position here in Claremont, but certainly more competitive and shows a greater level of appreciation for what the parents do with our children every day. The maintenance workers is a two year agreement. What? There are two pieces to it. One was an increase in their grid of of 3%, I believe the number was.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: And also changing from a current insurance policy that they had available to them through healthcare over to a policy that is provided by health trust, over to school care.

[10683-555] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short interjections and votes from many voic | 2020-01-08
PREV> Jason Benware: Yes. When you when you.
TEXT> Take over half of your kids.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Anyway.

[10694-24] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-01-15
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: For Disney Elementary, they will perform their band concert tomorrow night at 6:30 p.m. and there's nothing else to a poor and nuts week. I will have a student joining me for my report for a presentation to you guys about the cell phone policy.
TEXT> Questions for the student. Thank you Tyler.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[10694-27] Mimi Ryan | Public commenter, Ward 1 (Stevens High School counselor) | 2020-01-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Moving ahead to. Citizens comments. State your name and ward, please.
TEXT> My name is Mimi Ryan. I live in Ward one.  I'm a high school at this. I work at the high school and school counselor, and I'm here today to comment on the recent discussion on school lunch. First, let me say I completely understand the frustration about the school lunch date. I was curious to see if this was a Claremont problem or a problem other districts have. I googled national school lunch debt and I got about 23 million results. This tells me that this is a problem all districts have, and I'm guessing other districts also outsource their food service to an outside company. I also wanted to speak on the idea of getting rid of the hot lunch program. For a good chunk of our students in the district. The hot lunch meal, the hot meals they have at school are the only, well, well-rounded hot meals they have. Period. The only reason some students come to school is that they know they will have a full belly of food between breakfast and lunch. I realize I am not the prime target of the food service program because I'm an adult, but I can speak to it since I get lunch every day at the high school.
NEXT> Mimi Ryan: A good portion of the ingredients they use are locally sourced, including the milk. It comes from a dairy in New Hampshire. The salad bar is always stocked with fruits,

[10694-29] Mimi Ryan | Public commenter, Ward 1 (Stevens High School counselor) | 2020-01-15
PREV> Mimi Ryan: is a giant step backward that I do not think we as a district should take. A hungry student is an unhappy student who is not going to be fully engaged in their school day, and they will go from Hungary to Hungary real fast.
TEXT> I can tell you that very, very few students will feel full and content after that proposed lunch. As I said earlier, a good portion of our population struggle with food insecurity, and taking away this program honestly feels like a punishment to the students for something that is not something they can help or control. Additionally, you get what you pay for, the food that you're preparing, that the group is healthy and nutritious. And as people know, buying healthier food at the grocery store tends to be more expensive. Again, I know our hot lunch program has its issues, but does that mean we take away a program that is feeding students hot? Delicious? For the most part, food for two meals a day and give them a ham sandwich. I would hope to answer that is no. Yes, there are things that can be improved on with getting more of the free reduced lunch applications out to the community and the billing side, and with kids getting extras even if they are in the red. In my opinion, the district should continue to work on fixing this issues with the Abbey Group. 23 million Google results tells us that lunch debt is a nationwide problem, and the kids shouldn't have to  suffer because of it. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Thank you. Other citizens comments. Seeing none. I'll close citizens comments and we will move transition into our discussion action items. Okay. In the first action item is

[10694-76] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member (posts to the board Faceb | 2020-01-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well on.
TEXT> That as well. I, I posted on our Facebook page the when the governor came to speak  on these funds that are coming.  And if you watch, he specifically says that these funds are looking for infrastructure, for education, for special ed. So, if anybody has any questions about where these funds are coming from or what they're for, the, you know, the governor spoke to that,  and I think using these funds to get ahead and maintain our, our buildings and make sure, you know, we're taking care of the roofs, the windows, whatever needs to be done in our schools. To better the kids education. So, it's some of the Claremont School School Board Facebook page.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So thank you for.

[10694-97] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short interjections from several board membe | 2020-01-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: budget from accepting the the secretary's contract. Paraprofessionals we have it's actually the second largest group we have behind teachers and a critical component of if you've ever been in the classroom, the teacher and the the professor is just a critical part of educating.
TEXT> The kids.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: For the longest time, we have underpaid and under provided for our our paraprofessionals within the area. There's been some improvements we are looking this year to improve yet further,

[10694-128] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: So also want to hand it to Mike.
TEXT> Particularly, the people have been saying for years, we need less administration, we need more money going toward education. And you've done just that. I mean, there's less people at the say there's going to be more teachers in our schools. I think that's great.  And I just wanted to put it out there for anybody who's listening that have been saying this, this is indeed happening. So, our kids are benefiting from this.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I will your talking about that. I just want to fill out a little bit about the positions at the middle school and what happened. When doctor McGowan started,

[10694-133] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: So to.
TEXT> Both gain to both gain efficiencies in program and contents and outcomes for students as well as have interventions.  And I we spoke about the, the entry plan and the strategic plan that we're working on right now. We have 13 committees going strong looking for recommendations and things like that. Obviously, we had to be ahead of that to get the budget in on time. So I'm going to talk about some of those impacts, particularly with the elementary program. We were able to have the curriculum people and the principals and look at perspective in ways in which we could mitigate a lot of the concerns that we had. And I'll talk about what those are.  I want to I want to really emphasize, as was emphasized before, is that this is no reflection of the amazing team of educators we have at each and every building and the work that they're doing. But what we have found, and I'll kind of catalog a lot of the things that we've found is that there can be inconsistencies and resources in the like, and we looked at a way in which we could both bolster the supports in the education for the students and concentrate that by a grade level approach, instead of having three replicated neighborhood schools, which are a little bit more costly.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And our that with what we came up with as a team over the past week. Okay, so, the benefits of, of restructuring to a grade level system. Okay. Are

[10694-136] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: our. We will be refining this over the next few months when we know the exact catchment that's out there of the population, which is hard to determine sometimes, but we we feel comfortable that we can offer 60 seats okay for all day pre-K.
TEXT> That will greatly increase the literacy of students as they enter the early grades. And foundationally that is the key. When a when a student is reading to learn by the third and fourth grades in that vicinity,  the efficiency and the effect that they will have all the way through their experience. It even impacts high school graduation retention rates in ninth grade. There's a lot of studies on that that we would like to share. We feel like we're front end loading the educational experience for the students all the way through, so that students are more able to learn and grasp concepts both not just with literacy, but also with math fluency as well. In the early grades, there would be there could be unique. There already is there already ideas? And it was. I can't tell you how invigorating it was to be around the table with the curriculum. People in the principles and the ideas that that were going around about field trip potential, other types of concentrated learning experience. We already have amazing things that happen, you know, with the winter program that's going on now and all the different things that are focused throughout the schools now, we would have aspects of all of those at each school, and we can expand upon those things.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There will be reduced. This was a big one that I frankly hadn't thought about. Most of my career has been as a high school principal and at the secondary

[10694-137] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: have amazing things that happen, you know, with the winter program that's going on now and all the different things that are focused throughout the schools now, we would have aspects of all of those at each school, and we can expand upon those things.
TEXT> There will be reduced. This was a big one that I frankly hadn't thought about. Most of my career has been as a high school principal and at the secondary level. But there's reduced conflicts in the age spread with kids. Okay. So from from from kindergarten to grade five now you would only have a couple of years in between. Not that that's incredibly problematic, but you would have more likelihood of cohorts going through and cohesiveness. Remember, a lot of times the first time these kids see each other. Other than neighborhoods and other other incidental, you know, things in in in town is when they get together for the first time in middle school. Now they will be going through as a cohort all the way through. They'll be more experiences. They'll be we feel strongly, particularly with social acclimation programs, that there could be and should be less bullying, those types of things where they, they, they know each other and they have more opportunities all the way through the reallocation, as I alluded to before, of teachers. Okay. And we don't think that any teachers whatsoever.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Okay. And we've already looked at this. We've looked at applications in which we would bolster other supports and push in content experts looking at at the models. And we

[10694-143] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: a, you know, people responding. We put out a anonymous, feedback Google form printed as well, so we can sort over those things and be prepared for what's on people's minds about this for our Tuesday meeting and come up, come up with a plan.
TEXT> But this is this is something we have to do pedagogically. This is something we have to do for students right now. We can't continue. We see behaviors and trauma informed,  you know, instruction, trying to meet the demands in pockets of the things that are going around of the challenges, excuse me, the challenges in the classroom. And it's been hard. It's hard for our demographic. It's hard for our staff. We feel like concentrating on those things and having a  feedback, particularly data loops. Professional really type professional learning communities with with curriculum that is completely known by smaller, smaller, cohorts of teachers looking at the growth cycles of students specifically, we can match up interventions and we can pull them out and push in what they need best to succeed. Couple that with the jump in the early literacy I it was the best spring in the step of the the elementary administrative team I've seen in the past week, and it's really invigorating the feed off of that energy and try to deliver on this for the students at Claremont. So we're excited about it. So what? Change is tough and we know that we will have a go of it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We know for those viewing at home, when you hear this for the first time and you have I had the opportunity today, I met with the police chief and

[10694-144] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the past week, and it's really invigorating the feed off of that energy and try to deliver on this for the students at Claremont. So we're excited about it. So what? Change is tough and we know that we will have a go of it.
TEXT> We know for those viewing at home, when you hear this for the first time and you have I had the opportunity today, I met with the police chief and the fire chief, among others, today, the typical day. But  and I know their progression of schools that they  went through and how many more schools there were and in fact, there were years. You know, I heard all about the desired annex and all the things that had to happen in time when the population was more than it it things like that wax and wane a little bit. But this is where we are now. And we feel as a team that it is the best educational value that we can put out for our students that will carry all the way through their full run in the Claremont Public Schools. So. And our questions. Yes.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: All right. Just a few quick things. I'm sure there are teachers. Out there freaking out right now about job security and, and. Things like that. So very quickly, can

[10694-148] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2020-01-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we're not going to be able to do all of it. We know that it would be naive to think so, but we're going to put our best foot forward and and do that collaborative with people to get the the best team on there.
TEXT> The other question I had was in regard to transportation for school and for parents, you know, I know for me,  if I if my kids were all in elementary like they were at one time all at the same time, I would have three different kids in three different schools. Yeah. So I'm wondering, I'm sure you guys are thinking proactively for parents in regard to transportation for the students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Or.

[10694-151] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Pick up, like, I wouldn't be able to pick up three kids at three schools at the same time. So I think just as long as that sort of plan is clear moving forward. So parents aren't in a panic as well.
TEXT> Yeah, we we also and that's part of some of the transportation costs that we talk about. We need replacement on the fleet. But we also know that there's some some other transportation that we will need as well. So when we're working on that, what we wanted to make sure that we had had vetted. And as always, if you've driven by the saw, you see Richard's car is there late all the time. Okay. But we we had to burn a lot of hours to, to be able to present this and particularly to be able to present something that that we know is better in the long run for kids. Now, the cost of change, okay. In the,  the turmoil associated with change, the, the, it's it's hard to do, but we know in the end that it will benefit our students. So.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[10694-207] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: That is an incredible value. And you can divide up the content experts within the grade. There's a lot of variability, a lot of value added that way, that and that. Those are some of the conversations that the principals and curriculum team were having.
TEXT> And it was really you just can't do that when you have a couple grades per school. You just can't. You're lucky to stay afloat and then make sure that you you receive it, you know, the kids the whole way. We would also be having we would have enough time to focus on the curriculum that we have, but really work on the transitions, because that that is a downside of this, okay, that you have the transition from school to school, but you also have the natural resilience of students to that. Oftentimes they are okay with the change. And that is something we heard about the winter program that kids were they thought it was really cool to see all the other schools like, wow, you know, they they haven't been in the other elementary schools and things like that. So we feel confident as well about putting measures in place and having traditional step up like you do for elementary to middle and middle to high, so that there's a bridging that happens that though particularly developmentally, the earlier the better that there's a big process that goes on when they go to that. And this is what it will look like. And for parents as well, you know, not not just the students, it's a big change for the whole community.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think the big takeaways for me.

[10694-210] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-01-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: and again, who wouldn't want their kid to be in that eight eight, kid room? But again, I don't want my kid in the one the first grade room with 23 or 24, either because that these grades are so important first, second and third.
TEXT> If student gets behind their  the likelihood of catching up is, as Mike said, that it keeps extrapolating into the upper grades and eventually you have a dropout.  So,  pedagogically, there's nothing wrong with that. There are going to be some, as I call it, visceral reactions to this. There are going to be some emotional reactions to this. But I think that, as far as what's best for the kids of Claremont, I think this is a really good path. Okay. Further questions. Okay. Thank you. Would you like to make some closing comments. To what? Are you all set?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I'm all set.

[10694-222] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: after the law is finalized. Yeah. Okay. Which is great. 24th I think. March. Okay. So I'd say March, but I'm continuing to stay on top of it. I'm going to Concord on Friday to to attend a stakeholder, and public public hearing making process.
TEXT> One thing that's not on here and and Mr. Tempesta mentioned it is it would be about I think what we had done was we wanted to see some data on growth as far as some of the achievement levels of the kids. And I think we were supposed to do that in the fall, but we really didn't have any data. And I think we said, let's look at that after first semester is over. So I you had mentioned that you had looked at the data and saw some very encouraging data. So I think we'd like to see that at some point, probably, maybe in March we having just the one meeting in February, just the just the public delivery session. Are we going to have a second.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: We have a say sixth one on the 20th.

[10704-14] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: are either behaviorally challenged or or have special needs students to access the curriculum, and also the specialized programing and a least restrictive environment to ensure everyone has access to career and college readiness when they graduate and go off into the into the world.
TEXT> There are also many historical gaps  in deficiencies  that we inherited at the beginning of this process, including the kids that are half scheduled  with half a year of science and social studies at the middle school. That's been going on for about six years. So we wanted to remedy that,  and also to take a look at ways in which and this this was a big driver for the proposal with the  elementary schools  to mitigate the enrollment trends and create  that create inequities in staffing. Meaning basically, if our in our elementary schools right now we have about 317, I believe in Maple, 150  just hovering around there in bluff in just around coming up on 300 and desert. And that created a a really lopsided staffing patterns in class size patterns. That's what we were looking to remedy.  We had to negotiate for collective bargaining agreements  this year and  that that were all due. And with those  bargaining agreements to we wanted to address historical inequities so that we would be competitive with  other towns  competing for  workforce and teachers,  and so that we wouldn't lose as many  teachers  as we have in the past, with approaching 25% in turnover every year, which is very costly undertaking.  It's also costly for the students without not having consistency.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So those were big things. And and also to curb our out of district spending and reduce our special ed budget as best as we could, and we're looking to

[10704-17] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: a reduction in tax rate from this year to next year of almost $0.60 for all of us taxpayers. But just to go through and what I try to use here is the same format that was utilized in the annual report from last year.
TEXT> So it started with debt service, and we still, of course, are paying debt service. Debt service being a combination of principal and interest that's being paid. On the renovation of Stevens High School, it's down about $21,000 from last year to this year, or from this year to next year's budget. There was an item that was on for last year of inter fund transfers of $65,000. In the course of my three and a half months here, I could never find substantiation for why we had that there, so I've not included it in next year's budget for a reduction of 65,000. The next item that we have on the screen here is special education out of district for elementary wide. And this raised a couple of questions last week when we made our first presentation of the budget last year, it was budgeted at 380,000. And next year we're recommending a budget of 520 her an increase of $139,000. And there was some question as to why we had an increase with the pride program being put in place in the schools, and a focus on trying to bring our children back into our town and educate them within our buildings.  Just to go backwards a bit,  in following up with Ben Nestor, who runs our special ed program, it was estimated last year that the cost of elementary wide special education out of district was going to be $800,000.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The budget that was put into the her. What was put into the budget was 380,000. I don't know why 380 was put in there, but it was put in

[10704-18] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: and educate them within our buildings. Just to go backwards a bit, in following up with Ben Nestor, who runs our special ed program, it was estimated last year that the cost of elementary wide special education out of district was going to be $800,000.
TEXT> The budget that was put into the her. What was put into the budget was 380,000. I don't know why 380 was put in there, but it was put in there to give an idea of historic.  In fiscal 19, there was 750,000 that was spent on out of district. In fiscal year 18. It was $790,000.  This year we're forecasting for elementary  special education out of district payments  of approximately $600,000. So we're going to be over budget this year. And again, I can't speak to how the 380 was created. What we're looking for for next year is a reduction from this year's actual of approximately 600, down to the $520,000. And the expectation is to continue to do this by keeping our children here in our district, not sending them off to Brattleboro, not sending them off to other communities, other schools, but educating them here in town. And that initiative continues, and we should continue to see control, if not reduction, of our out of district elementary placements going through the individual locations. So starting with Bluff School, bluff is looking at approximately a $28,000 increase year over year. Maple is looking at a $275,000 increase, but we moved them significant amount of the special education costs and special education programs into the Maple School, so that should be expected for a year over year.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Disney is seeing a reduction of 5000. The middle school is seeing an increase of approximately 480,000, or 9%. We have included in the budget for new teaching positions, two

[10704-19] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: looking at approximately a $28,000 increase year over year. Maple is looking at a $275,000 increase, but we moved them significant amount of the special education costs and special education programs into the Maple School, so that should be expected for a year over year.
TEXT> Disney is seeing a reduction of 5000. The middle school is seeing an increase of approximately 480,000, or 9%. We have included in the budget for new teaching positions, two for social studies and two for the science. In taking a look at the curriculum offering that we have in our middle school, we have an incomplete curriculum offering for our kids in science and social studies, where they don't have to take three full years of science and social studies, and we didn't have the teachers to provide it. And that's putting our kids behind when they come into the high school level. So it's to try and remedy this situation and be able to provide a full curriculum at our middle school. Stevens High School is up approximately $100,000, a little less than 2%. The Alternative Support Program, or the pride program was not in the budget last year. So we're including in the cost of what this pride program, this alternative program is at the $523,000 number. And this is the offset to sending our kids outside of our district. The sugar River Valley Technical Center is down 367,000 and the district wide, which is a pool of dollars that are allocated across our buildings, is up by almost the same number.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The reason for this is the special education paraprofessionals used to be in the sugar River Valley Regional Tech Center, and next year we're putting them into the district wide

[10704-38] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: year, five articles, five Warren articles that are recommended. As Mike had mentioned, we had successful negotiations with four of our, negotiating groups. The teachers is included in the budget, but the secretary's we are also successful based on the negotiation work with the secretaries.
TEXT> We're providing to the secretaries a 3.5% increase in their salary grid. There was a modification to the health offering, health insurance offering to the secretaries, and the cost of the negotiation with the secretaries for next year is zero. So there's no impact from the Secretary's negotiation. For the paraprofessionals, there's approximately 80 to 90 paraprofessionals that we have in the school system. And for those that have been in the classroom, for those that have gone around in the different schools, their paraprofessionals are just a critical part  of what we have to educate our kids and to keep a effective classroom. For a number of years, we've been trying to bring the paraprofessional salaries up to something that at least approaches a livable wage and to provide some level of benefits. With that step was continued in this negotiation. And the impact from the paraprofessional negotiation is $114,180, which translates into $0.15. Maintenance and transportation.  The increase from that, from from that negotiation, $19,131  or approximately $0.03. And then there are two reserves or spending trusts that are recommended. One is the bus reserve. For those that have seen our busses, or for those who live up by me on Winter Street and have bus nine come down through every morning, you can hear it about a quarter mile away, and you can hear it a quarter mile as it goes.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We've got some really old busses ten, 12, 13 year old busses. The taxpayers did approve the purchase of two busses or the leasing of two busses last year, but

[10704-69] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. So so.
TEXT> It's typical.  It might not be required, but it is core content that is that every all of our neighbors have all of the students that are competing for the same spots in public and private colleges. When they go there, they're at a deficit because they don't have that foundation when they get to Stevens High. So it that is why we didn't want to continue disadvantaging  the students in that we put that right back in. So it's it's it's not what students have all the surrounding towns. They have a full complement of core requirements. And that's what we want to advantage our students with.
NEXT> Cynthia Howard: I think it's a waste myself. I think the money could better be spent on focusing on what the kids need when they go into college. It's it's not a

[10704-70] Cynthia Howard | Public commenter, Ward 2 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: didn't want to continue disadvantaging the students in that we put that right back in. So it's it's it's not what students have all the surrounding towns. They have a full complement of core requirements. And that's what we want to advantage our students with.
TEXT> I think it's a waste myself. I think the money could better be spent on focusing on what the kids need when they go into college. It's it's not a priority. According to the state of New Hampshire anyway.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: I, I can tell you that if I did not have half of a year of eighth grade social studies, seventh grade social studies, I would not be able to

[10704-74] Cynthia Howard | Public commenter, Ward 2 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: 30s I'm going to let she's got 30s left. So is there anything else, Cynthia.
TEXT> As far as restructuring, nothing has really been spoken about about the impact on the parents. You know, the parents are going to have to spend more time with the kids, commuting them across town or walking them when they walk them to school in my neighborhood. How are they going to go about that if they are transferred right across, you know, 2 or 3 miles across town? I think little has been said about that or no, focus on that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And that. That's one of the core. The transportation in general is one of the core reasons we have pushed it so that we're not we're not going to go

[10704-83] Dave | Public commenter, Ward 3 (surname not given) | 2020-01-21
PREV> Dave: husband and I know I'm I'm going to be knee deep in it too, because I'm not going to let her, you know, move stuff around by, by herself. So I mean, it just it involves all of us more so than just the teachers.
TEXT> It affects all of us.  I'm concerned about the children. You have siblings that are 2 or 3 years apart. I look at that, and I see that these schools are going to be, I guess, tiered by age. As they grow older, they'll be going, all of them going to one school and then all of them going to another school. And I see that it seems I mean, it looks good and I know your heart's in the right place. I'm not trying to put you down at all, really, honestly, and I really appreciate that. It's a breath of fresh air. You're really want to do the right thing.  I just have great concern about it because I see siblings growing up in the school system potentially not even being able to go to the same school. And then that brings another issue like was addressed earlier.  You know, how was a how was a parent? I mean, let's look at it. I hate to do it from the worst case scenario. How does a single parent that's working deal with 2 or 3 kids in 2 or 3 different schools, getting them to school and then picking them up from school?
NEXT> Dave: I realized that there are a lot of transportation issues that are going to be tried, try to be taken care of. There's a lot of logistics that has to

[10704-84] Dave | Public commenter, Ward 3 (surname not given) | 2020-01-21
PREV> Dave: mean, let's look at it. I hate to do it from the worst case scenario. How does a single parent that's working deal with 2 or 3 kids in 2 or 3 different schools, getting them to school and then picking them up from school?
TEXT> I realized that there are a lot of transportation issues that are going to be tried, try to be taken care of. There's a lot of logistics that has to be solved before this can happen. But still, I  just I see that there's there's probably so many logistical issues that have to be overcome and solved in order for this to happen. Okay. Thank you. And, I just I know there's a benefit there.  I know we want to we want to help the kids.  But I just I just don't see it yet as a it just seems that the problems are going to outweigh the benefits in my mind at this point. But I am grateful for a pause for a year. Pause. And one final. I think social studies is important. Matter of fact, I don't think we have enough social studies.  Yeah, that's all I have to say. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Someone else I can see a hand way in the back.

[10704-86] Misty Wheelock | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Someone else I can see a hand way in the back.
TEXT> Hello, I'm Misty Wheelock. I don't know what Waterman award here. Ward three. So for me, the only thing about the restructuring that I have a problem with, because I am, I brought up the transportation one on the Facebook. What's up? Claremont? Group. And that's being addressed. I prefer to have that fully planned out before we actually think about going live with that restructuring. But the problem for me is with this restructuring, we're destroying the idea of role models around a couple of years ahead for all the children. When I was a first grader, it was one of the biggest things to be able to see the seventh and eighth graders walking around with their heads held high. Look where I am. You're going to be here someday with this restructuring. Those kids aren't going to get that. They're going to get one year, two years difference. And all dolts, adults, they can't, they can't hold a candle to having another child as your role model, you know, because it's too far in the future for a kid to really grasp versus somebody who's in fifth grade. You're seeing them taking elective.
NEXT> Misty Wheelock: Let them go skiing. You're like, oh, whoa, I'd like to do that. I what do I have to do? Accomplish? Oh, I got to get an A in all

[10704-87] Misty Wheelock | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Misty Wheelock: And all dolts, adults, they can't, they can't hold a candle to having another child as your role model, you know, because it's too far in the future for a kid to really grasp versus somebody who's in fifth grade. You're seeing them taking elective.
TEXT> Let them go skiing. You're like, oh, whoa, I'd like to do that. I what do I have to do? Accomplish? Oh, I got to get an A in all my Spanish classes for the next three years.  You got it. I'm gonna do that. So that's the one thing I don't like about the restructuring. It destroys that ability for the children to have other role models. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[10704-104] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Unidentified: There actually two.
TEXT> Separate line items. Maintenance is maintenance. It's the custodians. It's the work we do in the buildings. It's not maintenance related to the busses. Okay, so included in the total transportation budget budget is continued maintenance on the busses that we have. The maintenance light item of $2.5 million speaks to all of those employees that we have to keep our buildings up clean and ready for our students each day.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: Okay. And then why is designated seeing a decrease when the other schools are seeing more of an increase?

[10704-111] Brianna Gordon | Public commenter, Ward 2 (chair calls her 'Sabrina' then 'Brianna') | 2020-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Any further comments from the community? Any further? Yes. Come on up, Sabrina. I remembered your name.
TEXT> Brianna Gordon, Ward two.  So I know that we've heard a lot about not having the transportation issue fixed and everything like that, and we've heard about, you know, bullying and wanting to keep that at a minimum. But have we thought about the process and the mentality of kids who have disabilities or have autism or any of that, and how that's going to take effect on them of being in a school from kindergarten to second grade and knowing that school really well, and then having to transfer and go to another school, that they don't have any clue  of any of it, no teachers, nothing like that for two years and then moving to the third school for that reason. So I guess my question is, have have we thought it through for these children? Because as a parent myself, I want to stand up and I want to say something for my kids. If, you know, there's going to be a question towards that. So what about family members or things like that of kids that are going to be in that same school system? So I guess that's my question. Have we thought about that?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well. I'll take that one on. First, one of the important parts of this very process tonight, Brianna, is the opportunity for people to ask questions just like you asked.

[10704-116] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: hoping that by focusing on the specificity of the curriculum and having more interventions along the route, we also can have more formal bridging ceremonies and things like that to to transition kids up for the next big school, as a teacher put it today.
TEXT> And there's there's ways to do that. Do we the reason we pump the brakes, as they say and said, there's questions like that and there's a few others. Those, to be completely honest with, the people who given us us submissions  both in email and verbally and also tonight. Those are our two biggest unknowns at this point. The transportation impact all the way through, as has been said, and also those transitions, how do we mitigate those transitions? And as someone else said, is the benefit that we will not make this decision if the benefit overall isn't the best, the best for student achievement across the board, for all learners. And that's what that's what we're hoping to do. It's not fully vetted. We need more time to do that. And we're looking forward to people like yourselves and others out there working with us to bring a tighter plan together for the fall. So thank.
NEXT> Unidentified: You, thank you, thank you. Yes, yes. Go ahead. Some of the concerns. That we heard here. And so. I had done a little bit of investigating before and I've

[10704-121] Mike Levine | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Mike Levine, board. One'; spelling unce | 2020-01-21
PREV> Unidentified: One kind of.
TEXT> Piggyback off what Brown was talking about with the kids. Use my own son as an example. He's four.  So when this happens, you know, he'd be going into school. He'll be with all the kids around his age throughout the whole process. And if I'm wrong, be the same middle school sixth graders, seventh graders, eighth graders are still separated. So really, the potentially not going to see kids of other grades until high school. And I don't necessarily think four years is enough from a social aspect, like social skills interacting with other kids, like for me, for example, hit sixth grade, I only knew kids from Maple Ave, and then I had to deal with kids from Disney and from bluff, and I had to figure out, like, take that risk to meet new people and things like that. And I learned those social skills sooner. You know, and then it could apply that later on in life. And I'm not necessarily sure that I like helping them out by  prolonging that longer, if that makes sense.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes. So, yeah.

[10704-124] Sam Torres | Public commenter, Ward 1 (preschool teacher) | 2020-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Over on this side.
TEXT> All right. Hi, I'm Sam Torres, Ward one. I have two things. First, on the restructuring. I'm very interested. You said online there was going to be something going up. Okay. Because I really have a lot to say about that. Secondly, I'm curious about the preschool. If the four year old preschool for all the kids in Claremont, would it be everybody? I don't I'm a little unclear. I'm curious what that would look like because I am a preschool teacher in Claremont. Would it be play based? Like, I have a lot of questions and I don't know where I can find that info, because I would be concerned if it would be like that trickle down of elementary school to the four year olds, because  that's not something that I could get behind. And I would want to make sure that was very clear. Like, what would that look like? Would it be kindergarten at age four or would it be play based or what curriculum? So is there somewhere to find that yet? I know that's early. These are all a lot of what ifs, but I'm very interested on what that would look like for four year olds.
NEXT> Unidentified: Then I'll feed off an after you. Yeah, sure. Yeah. I think you. Should join one of the focus groups. By the way, I will be. Great to get your

[10704-126] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Unidentified: We worked with the state over the last several years to revamp the the early childhood program here to great success. And so we would we would continue with that model, the pyramid model, which you're very familiar with, I'm sure. So, yes. Yeah. Donna.
TEXT> I was just going to say the same, basically the same thing, a pyramid model we'll be looking at and development of the appropriate age appropriate curriculum of using with the kids. So it would be a play based, you know, model. Okay.
NEXT> Sam Torres: Because I think that would be I would just I was curious because I didn't even know if that was an option until last week, so..

[10704-154] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2020-01-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> That would be my personal opinion, but I feel like anytime there's huge things. Happen. Within. The community, it should be the community has the opportunity to share their thinking on it and then decide whether or not that's the path that they want for their children and their family members and community members. So I'm in full agreement with you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yes, ma'am.

[10704-156] Joyce Hines | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Joyce Hines. Brook Ward two'; surname u | 2020-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yes, ma'am.
TEXT> Good evening, Joyce Hines. Brook Ward two. After read, I can't just get up here and say these things. I just, I think change is hard. I think we do have advantages to having our schools k through five. A lot of it is school pride. Being in the same school as your siblings. You're in a neighborhood school. There's peer groups with the older kids support the younger kids, they have lunch with them and recess with them. The bussing, they know all the teachers. I don't know how many times I've been into a school and someone sees a teacher from last year, and the kids are so happy to see them or they they giving them hugs. All those are advantages to what we have. I understand that there's disadvantages.  Also, but I think we have to remember moving students three times. It's challenging and I've heard many of  you say it tonight, the ones with special needs, not just the ones with IEP, but kids with  emotional or behavioral challenges. They will have to move three times and that will be tough for them. And a lot of kids, their families, they're in turmoil. And the one place there is consistency and predictability is at school.
NEXT> Joyce Hines: So I'm glad we're relooking at it. I checked areas, next to us, and most of them only changed two times. They don't have three changes at the elementary level,

[10704-157] Joyce Hines | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Joyce Hines. Brook Ward two'; surname u | 2020-01-21
PREV> Joyce Hines: with IEP, but kids with emotional or behavioral challenges. They will have to move three times and that will be tough for them. And a lot of kids, their families, they're in turmoil. And the one place there is consistency and predictability is at school.
TEXT> So I'm glad we're relooking at it. I checked areas, next to us, and most of them only changed two times.  They don't have three changes at the elementary level,  but I'm glad there'll be committees. I was going to suggest that really some teachers. There's no one that knows the kids better than the teachers and what will work for them. So for them to be on this committee would be huge, along with school board and administration and and parents. So that's it. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Anyone else from the community? Anyone else? Yes.

[10704-160] Samantha Fontaine | Public commenter, Maple Avenue school parent | 2020-01-21
PREV> Samantha Fontaine: rules would need to change a little bit. Because right now with my job, I work up in Lebanon, you know, I am able to get him on a bus, but I have to go to a different place to get him on a bus.
TEXT> I can't get him on the bus of my house or I'll be late to work. So in order for me to do that, I had to contact the bus garage. They had to do this big approval to get a different drop off in pickup location. So that they don't like to do it. It's one location per child. It was a little bit of a big deal for me to have him picked up at a different location, and then dropped off at home. He's in third grade so he can come home by himself, you know, he knows what to do. So because I can't get home to 530, my husband gets home a little bit earlier, so that's fine. But if and then my son is going to be coming up to kindergarten soon, and if we separate both of my children, my kindergartner will go to Maple, so he'll get home earlier. Then my other child, who's going to be at a different school. So he's not going to be allowed to get off the bus  because they do not allow children under grade three to get off the bus without an adult there. I work, I don't get on to 530. My husband gets home about four 430. They won't drop him off.
NEXT> Samantha Fontaine: If my two sons are together, they will let them go and be home. So I feel like the busting rules would have to change a little bit in order

[10704-163] Shelly | Public commenter, Ward 2 (kindergarten teacher; surname not given) | 2020-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you, thank you, thank you and good luck. Yes. Right in the middle.
TEXT> Hi, my name. Is Shelly Ward two. I would really appreciate it if we could discuss the driving force  for the restructuring the elementary schools, because  it's my understanding that it wasn't a budget issue, it wasn't academically driven. So I really would like the public to know why. What's the big push for this?  Because we've talked a lot about, you know, the benefits of having older children, you know, being with younger children. I'm also a kindergarten teacher in the district. One of the best things that I did this year was to create a big buddies, Little Buddies program with the kindergartners in the fifth graders. They are buddy together. They have their mentors. My little buddies absolutely adore my big buddies. And if we restructure and I'm now hopefully, I don't know, at Maple doing k one, I don't know if I can buddy up a kindergartner with a first grader. That doesn't really seem like a I mean, it's possible, but that would be like two friends. Not exactly a mentoring program like I do right now. It's been really great for our fifth graders as well. It's given them a lot of ownership and responsibility, especially with  our students that  not always make the best decisions. But when they see their little buddies in the hallway, they they know how to be role models and they know how to, you know, fix it up.
NEXT> Shelly: So I would really appreciate it if we could discuss the driving force with this three configuration restructuring. What whatever you'd like to call it.

[10704-167] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: it out there. If you start sooner with literacy and a student is is ready to reading to learn by third or fourth grade, the studies and the perseverance rates, both in middle school and high school and on to college are significant, really significant.
TEXT> And those those were the things that we were looking at. So there's a lot of evidence base to that. Do we have a lot to do? And many people have said this is it, right for our community. When we look at those things, the the compelling arguments that we've heard from from parents today about about transportation, about other, other, instances when we look at all of all of those things in total, which we will over the next few months, I will come up with an informed decision to that. And if it's the decision to go to a vote for that, so be it. I think that's a Democratic thing to do. I think it's a good thing to do. But as we look forward to to create opportunities for all kids at all grades, in terms of of the limited dollars that we have in a school district, we want to make sure that we're vetting every opportunity for student success. And some of those things are very obvious as to us where we acted right away and built it in the budget right away that kids aren't kids, particularly in science curriculum and in social studies curriculum. They're not at the pace of their peers. And we're seeing that net out at the high school level. We just want to have a full complement of opportunities for our students.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And that's that's what drove this decision to investigate it. And that's what we'll continue to drive all of the investigations to, to try to strengthen the schools. So that's

[10704-185] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Michelle: thing I wanted to clarify is that when you're doing community forums, is this going back to the drawing board where there could be where people have talked about, maybe only two transitions instead of three transitions? Is that back to open to many discussions?
TEXT> I'm glad you said everything is on the table to improve the school. So one thing, frankly, yourselves and a few others sent emails that I didn't have time to respond to that were very thoughtful, pointed in, and there was a lot out there that we we've already started to share and everything that we have. And I would like to again, encourage people to be a part of that part of that process. And what I said to staff to is, is we have we have all the staff  comments that came in. We have all these other documents. We just want to get it together and do what's best. So, yeah, it's  someone we, a staff member, will put that in a very colorful way in our faculty meeting. Basically something to the effect of is this a just we we kick it around till it comes out the way you want it type of thing. What do you want to open it up and look for solutions. And we're looking for the best solutions for the best outcomes for our kids. Great. Yeah.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Thank you so much. Further comments from the community. Yes, sir.

[10722-49] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And just to look side by side of the grades of salaries, we were not competitive. And now we are in the game. So we're hoping that that, along with our professional development in the great work environments that we have, keep people long term.
TEXT> There is nothing that replaces the the sanctity of the classroom and the bond between the teacher, the student and the curriculum. It is everything in the education of our children. So that's a sacred sacrifice.  All of the other programs as well. And I'll go into  just so you have a. So I've also heard a lot about that big check in, where is that 6.2 million going? And provided this breakdown, we're going to be posting this online as well. And we had some copies here as well. But if you look at that, the first the first three, you have to remember when this came in, it came in late in in October. The tax rate has still not had been set when the governor came out with the checks.  And it was a compromise between the the legislature  and the 1.3 million. Immediately we we we had met previously and we had talked about our goals as a school committee and as the administration, and we brought it to the public, and we voted to put 650 in the Special Education Trust, and the other 650 is returned to the taxpayer.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we're going to come back to another Vermont that is returned as well. The second allocation to be used in the budget of 2.9. That's what a lot of

[10722-54] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2020-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: I know are already seen this. Have you been to board meetings for the last couple of board meetings and the meetings we had there, but it takes time to go through it again. So what we're looking at here again is we've got fiscal.
TEXT> We okay. We've got the fiscal night. The 2019 2020 budget is compared to the 2021 proposed. And then what the increase or decrease is. And you can see on debt service. And this is a debt service that relates to the improvements that were done on this building, primarily the bond. The debt service comes down just a little bit as we're paying a little less in interest. We had last year fund transfer of $65,000, which I have been unsuccessful in finding out what that is or why we had it. And if we couldn't find out why it was there, I took it out. So we eliminated that into fund transfer. The next section down there was a lot of discussion on special education out of district expenses that we had last year or the year we're currently in. The budget was set at $380,000. Next year, we're we're proposing a $519,000 expenditure. And to give a little perspective on this, three years ago, the expense there was 780,000. This year was actually estimated to be an $800,000 expense. So we are bringing the cost of these out of district charges down. The challenge you have, of course, without a district special education charges is we don't know the kids that we're going to have in town.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: If someone moves in and they have a high cost special ed out or district charge, we have no choice but to but to pay that. This is not an

[10722-56] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2020-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: All the costs are related to what we have in there, but it is an increase from the budget that we put together last year, going into next year, just now going on our individual buildings, the Bluff School you can see is relatively flat.
TEXT> It's up $28,000. Maple Avenue School is up on a 274,000. The reason for that is we did move programs into that building. And what I'm doing here is not going program by building, by building in some of the special ed programs that we have internally are located in that building, and the expenses go along with them. This is down a little bit, the $479,000 increase at the Claremont Middle School is primarily related to the addition of for teaching positions, we have two that are being added in social studies and two being added in science. And you've heard the superintendent speak about this, where the kids in our middle school do not have a full curriculum because they don't have the teachers to buy them. Three years of social studies and three years of science. And this is to correct that, that that shortfall that we have. Stephen's High School is up a little bit. Again, primarily here, we're related to what the impact is from the teachers contract, the alternative support program.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Pride wasn't in last year's budget. So the pride program here is running the that's that special needs program at the elementary level that is that is currently in place

[10722-57] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2020-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: social studies and three years of science. And this is to correct that, that that shortfall that we have. Stephen's High School is up a little bit. Again, primarily here, we're related to what the impact is from the teachers contract, the alternative support program.
TEXT> Pride wasn't in last year's budget. So the pride program here is running the that's that special needs program at the elementary level that is that is currently in place and doing some great things for those that have had a chance to see the report that was done in the Valley News, they did a tremendous, article on what's going on there and its effect on the kids and its effect on the families. It's just a tremendous program. The next two line items you can see between sugar River and the district to be allocated, this is what I call the finance geography use. That 367 000 used to be in sugar River. It didn't belong in the sugar River budget and it belonged in the strict wide budget. So I took it out of one and put it into another. So between the two of them. So there are no increases there. And then the, the larger one which the superintendent spoke about as did, as did,  Jason was the $1.5 million capital investment. And we'll go through some more detail after a couple of these slides on what's included in that 1.5 million and the type of expenses being looked at farther down and just comparing some year over year numbers, maintenance is down a little bit by $126,000.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Transportation is up by 147. We're just running the busses longer and we needed more bus drivers. We needed more people to be able to provide the services that our

[10722-58] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2020-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: we'll go through some more detail after a couple of these slides on what's included in that 1.5 million and the type of expenses being looked at farther down and just comparing some year over year numbers, maintenance is down a little bit by $126,000.
TEXT> Transportation is up by 147. We're just running the busses longer and we needed more bus drivers. We needed more people to be able to provide the services that our students needed. In that case, technology is relatively flat. There is an increase in technology in the buildings that relates to trying to get our buildings so that they can consistently do things from one building to the next. We can't do we? We don't have the ability to  to have meetings of the whole school in the neighborhood do projection. We don't have the same kind of technology in each of the classrooms from one building to this. This is  reading an equity from each one of our buildings to the next. And again, there's a detail behind every that's related to this that you have. Smaller energy technology has put together and then the negotiated agreements, and we spoke to the negotiation agreements for the teachers. And the reason for that revenues. So the way the revenues work in this state is sort of interesting. But what I'll try to do here is work our way back, work the first line, which line? 1121 district assessment. And those are the dollar is being raised by our taxes. So once you take all the everybody's we're receiving from the various sources, that's actually our plug number at the end.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: And you can see we're looking at raising from our taxes one, about 1.2 million less next year then being raised this year. So let's work our way down because

[10722-61] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2020-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: you'll expect to see the budget. The following. You go down by at least at 1.5 million is either one time expended. Kindergarten aid is a one 154,000 754,000. With the state doesn't break it out any longer, they've now included in adequate education grants.
TEXT> They just they don't give us the detail on that. State property tax is sort of a funny thing. There's a state property tax in all towns and cities pay to the state. And we are paying we pay the state $1,353,000 next year. And they did. So you see it on one side as a revenue you'll see on the other side is an expense for the taxes. It's just the way the state does. It's does its statewide education, property tax, catastrophic aid in this case are what do we have very high need, expensive kiddos on the special ed that are over three times the average cost of jobs, or basically about $55,000, we can submit to the state and reset. We receive back a certain amount of that money has dropped again. We don't really know what it's going to be. We don't receive it next year. We'll probably procedure sometime in the future. But again, this is an estimate of based on what we know, our expenses for our kids. And then the last piece is Medicaid. Now Medicaid is going through a significant change for those that are following the legislature.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: There's significant changes that are Medicaid. There was some question of whether we were going to be able to to bring in any Medicaid dollars based on the way it

[10722-64] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2020-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: come forward later in the meeting here, we did have a secretary's negotiation that took place. It has a zero impact on the budget. Actually, the Secretary's negotiation saves us money because of a change that they agree to as relates to health care primarily.
TEXT> So no effect from that. The paraprofessionals and the for those that have been in the classroom to work with our teachers, their paraprofessionals are just a most critical part of what we have in our schools to work with our kids. And they have been for years woefully underpaid, and they continue to be woefully underpaid. But during the negotiation, tried to bring at least a little bit up here so that all of our parents aren't then going out and working at one of the shops down in Washington Street, and then another one after that. The maintenance and transportation workers is up $0.03  on $19,000 for their contract. And then, as the superintendent pointed out, there's a recommendation for a bus reserve  of $500,000. And a future slide will go through the basis for this  500,000. Also for capital projects. Trust. When we add those together on the articles plus the budget, we come up with. 2.0722.07. It basically reduces our tax saving or our reduction tax. It still established it now a 56% reduction in taxes from last year to this year. And that's catching up on all our maintenance, putting in place the contracts and doing all the things that we've been discussing here this evening. We're still looking at a reduction in our in our tax rate.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: And I say we because I live in town here, I pay the same taxes that everyone else is sitting up here face. Let's spend a moment, if we could,

[10722-75] Unidentified | Unidentified - floor motion, second or fragment | 2020-02-01
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of the article.
TEXT> I was. Given in favor of this article, mainly because I am a current student at Stevens High School who has seen all of these issues happen within the budgets in the past. Back in middle school, the reason why we have the pellets is because we had an issue, where we had a minor explosion of a hidden system where we had to switch over to a safer system. And that is why we have that  power for  the renovation of the high school was needed because of all the leaks in the ceilings and the current status of it.  The high school now is that way by the shape.  We now have the ventilation we need and we have the fire code. And I am proud to be here because of that renovation. I also believe that this budget started to be good for us because it does increase. It does not increase the chances of decreases, as Mr. Seaman said. But it will be beneficial to the students who  are here after I leave this year. Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak against the article? Mr. Lucas.

[10722-114] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - same 'crystal ball' / 'pred | 2020-02-01
PREV> Unidentified: I'll answer. Yeah.
TEXT> I'm sure I've got I want to answer questions. Actually I want to answer your and then ask the answer to this  over here. Number one, the program for setting forth for the special education and the special, the alternative programs, they're designed for the kids that are in our district right now. The only way that would be tuition to other kids is if we had space for them, and it would be at a cost that would pay for what they were doing. And then so that would add revenue to our town. Right now, we have such a need that the reason we're we asked for half of the 1.3 million and the last special meeting was so we can add more programs on because there's a lot of kids who have social and emotional problems in this town.  Couple that with the amount of kids who have autism and believe me, we don't even look for other people in other districts. We've got enough of our own right now, so  I wouldn't worry too much about drawing other people in or trying to bring people from other towns. We're going to deal with our own first. So that's the first answer. Your answer, sir, about why the money is different. Okay,  so  if you were to look up, if you get one of these, there's a breakdown that you showed up on the screen, the 38,202,661 that's in the world.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: That's the number that includes the food service grants, the food service money grants, and adult and money that comes in. But it's passed through money. So essentially it's we

[10722-126] Amanda Barton | Public commenter (self-identified [276], ASR 'But one Amanda Barton or | 2020-02-01
PREV> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak for against this Attica that hasn't spoken yet?
TEXT> But one Amanda Barton or two. I just wanted to start by saying that. Thank you. Lord, I know how much work you guys put into it, and it's a very  perilous and exhausting job. So thank you so much.  I think we were getting stuck a little bit on this slide about our on the budget. No doubt  everyone has had great things about really thinking about our budgets and what we're spending our money on, which is great. But my biggest worry is that if we do not pass this school budget, we are not supporting our teachers. Our teacher contract will not be supported. And I'm going to let you guys, but it starts with them, okay? Our students get those who works for them every single day. If we want teachers just keep rolling in and rolling out. We wonder why our social emotional behaviors are where they are  today as well. They don't have that adult support that they need at those younger ages to have that adult supervision. So looking back, I know that we have a lot of money  into renovations, which is what we have funding from the state for, which is great.  So thank you to the state for that.
NEXT> Amanda Barton: Really, we need to support our teachers and need to get to the point where their salaries are competitive. So they stay here and we can start to build a

[10722-147] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2020-02-01
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Anyone who wish me to speak that hasn't spoken.
TEXT> Good evening. Rob. Two  I would like to take a moment as the only member of the entire board that was part of the capital improvement program to walk each and every one of these buildings. I came to Claremont only a year and a half ago. However, my family by proxy through the Marquis de Coombs, we've been a staple of this community for many, many generations now. And I, when I joined and ran for the school board, my goal was to improve the quality of life for my children who are in this school currently and help reduce taxes whenever possible.  I've been on this board for the last year and a half, and I've seen them all work tirelessly, and this year we have a very unique opportunity where even if all the ones ask, not only do we approve the quality of life for our children exponentially, we are still reducing your taxes. We are sitting in a house  and we have a set amount of lumber every year, and we throw it in the fireplace and we have holes in the wall. This is a one time opportunity where the local lumber company is giving us excess wood. And you're saying you'd be more willing to throw it into the fireplace and let it burn and waste away than fixing the patches in your in your wall?
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: This is a unique opportunity for us to improve Claremont for a long term. This is a unique opportunity for us to improve the state of life for both standard

[10722-243] Unidentified | Unidentified - floor motion, second or fragment | 2020-02-01
PREV> Tracy Pope: I'm sorry.
TEXT> Is this young man. Mr. voter? Yes, yes. Sure is. I said. I'll be voting for every time after this. I just don't have a solid  one. I was just  wondering. So  I see those busses every day because I'm at the bus garage every day. We have the two new busses that we just use for  busses, and we have a bus. That's best. Nine that Bailey roads. It gets you from point A to point B, and you can you can hear it coming from a mile away,  if not more. And a lot of the other busses are the same way.  So it's time for the  it's time for new busses, and it's time for the busses where our kids can actually, feel safe in them and not be afraid that the bus will break down. My bus is broken down three times in the past two years in the middle of the valves. Sometimes the busses are in Washington Street. They've been done in Washington Street. What are we going to do? Well, we can't walk in Washington Street, but thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Anyone wishing to speak for against this article? Mr. Siemens?

[10722-247] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2020-02-01
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you so much.
TEXT> If I could and I. I'm in favor of this exactly for the reason that was raised. There was someone who came along and came up here and said, how can I know what my budget is going to be for the next year? I'm trying to plan out two years, three years. What we know is over the past number of years, when the bus breaks, we have no choice but to replace it. So we don't have control over the budget coming out in the future. These are monies that will eliminate those surprises. So when the bus breaks in next year, or the year after the year after, we don't have to come to the taxpayers and say, dig in your pockets and give us some money for our kids to get to school. We have the money put aside when we're getting it from the state so we can answer that question. That's the same thing we have on this and this article. It's the same thing we have on the next article. How do we have a greater idea of what our budget is going to be over the next two, three, four, five years by putting away these reserves?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We don't have to come back and watch the taxpayers and say, we please vote on it when there's actually no choice whatsoever of what the vote needs to be.

[10722-322] Tracy Pope | Claremont School District Moderator (addressed as 'Tracy' [312] and 'M | 2020-02-01
PREV> Unidentified: Moderators like to make a motion to adjourn.
TEXT> This concludes tonight's meeting. On behalf of myself and the school district, I want to thank you for your opinions tonight and remind you that all of these warrant articles will be placed on the second district meeting, which is held March 10th 19.
NEXT> 

[10768-27] Paige Jarvis | Director, Claremont Early Childhood Program | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: table this until our next our next meeting. Thank you. So we have tonight we have the Claremont Early Childhood Program with us for presentation. And so I don't know how many of you are a part of that. But if you'd like to proceed.
TEXT> Hi, everybody. I'm Paige Jarvis. I'm the director of the Claremont Early Childhood program. I'm just going to give you a little overview, and then I'm going to have my I'm going to introduce the teachers, and they're going to come up and we're going to show you a table life of a preschooler for one of our activities that we did. So,  we offer preschool,  an Am and a PM class for 3 to 5 year olds or three entering kindergarten.  And we are open to  all of the Claremont community. So but once we're full, we we're full. We cap at 12 kids a class. We're at  almost 90 kids right now. So we're we're got access to 90 kids. We are  working on social emotional development. We are working on academics and early learning skills.  We use creative curriculum, which is,  meets up to the New Hampshire standards in early learning. So we're working on all of those things.  So and the impact that we have on kindergarten is tremendous, in my opinion. We  have our kids far more ready for kindergarten if they come to us.
NEXT> Paige Jarvis: We offer breakfast and lunch to our morning, and we offer lunch to our afternoon kids. We access the community center on Monday afternoons and the kids rotate through the

[10768-28] Paige Jarvis | Director, Claremont Early Childhood Program | 2020-03-04
PREV> Paige Jarvis: up to the New Hampshire standards in early learning. So we're working on all of those things. So and the impact that we have on kindergarten is tremendous, in my opinion. We have our kids far more ready for kindergarten if they come to us.
TEXT> We offer breakfast and lunch to our morning, and we offer lunch to our afternoon kids. We access the community center on Monday afternoons and the kids rotate through the classrooms.  Either swimming, the gym, the track,  just the in the community. It's really nice to be over there. We added a fourth classroom this year, so we're growing, which is wonderful. And so I'm going to turn over to the teachers  and I'm going to introduce the teachers. And they're going to tell you a little bit about what we did. And it was a lot of fun. You guys are wearing the hats that they made. So  we have Terry Zullo. She's in one of the classrooms. Kelly Provost, Christina Sanford and Cindy Roberts. So if you guys want to come up and you can talk a little bit, and then if you have any questions, you can ask them.
NEXT> Unidentified: So we were actually hoping to have some preschoolers here today to present, but with schedule changes and it's hard to get kids, you know, with out of their bedtime

[10768-29] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont Early Childhood Program preschool teacher (on | 2020-03-04
PREV> Paige Jarvis: made. So we have Terry Zullo. She's in one of the classrooms. Kelly Provost, Christina Sanford and Cindy Roberts. So if you guys want to come up and you can talk a little bit, and then if you have any questions, you can ask them.
TEXT> So we were actually hoping to have some preschoolers here today to present, but with schedule changes and it's hard to get kids, you know, with out of their bedtime routine. So next best thing, we did a little presentation today and taped it for you guys to see. We do a lot of learning in preschool to prepare our kids for kindergarten. And really, our children are learning all domains all the time. They're learning through play. We have a whole child approach. So in one short activity that we did with kids, they are learning how to count number sequencing, recognizing numbers. We're learning new  vocabulary rhyming and literacy. We're learning about the geography of Antarctica. We are learning about penguin habitats. We're learning how to work in small and large groups and how to take direction from adults. We're learning how to sequence  steps. If we're teaching them how to do a penguin hat, and its first this, then this, they're learning how to follow directions.  Fine motor skills. These lovely penguins up here, they did every piece of cutting themselves. So we're working on strengthening our fine motor skills, which will help for writing when they get to kindergarten. We are working on gross motor skills. You'll see in the video when we're doing a dance. They're working on skills that they're still developing, jumping, skipping all of those things.  We're introducing cause and effect through this story. You have the lyrics there.
NEXT> Unidentified: Something happens to this penguin, then something happens to this penguin. They're learning some, storytelling cause and effect. We're working on recalling details, memorization of rhyming and so much more.

[10768-36] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Head preschool. Very nice.
TEXT> Is that all of your kids? How many kids have you got?
NEXT> Paige Jarvis: That was all of our afternoon kids. So I think we had 36. We said. Or 30? No, we had 39 today.

[10768-41] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other questions.
TEXT> Is there any data that tells us how early intervention impacts children beyond kindergarten?
NEXT> Paige Jarvis: There's tons of information out there on that. Yeah, that, just I mean, really, they do their most growth from birth to three. I mean, think about the amazing amount

[10768-47] Paige Jarvis | Director, Claremont Early Childhood Program | 2020-03-04
PREV> Ben Nester: At it on the data we did have, which was on some not standardized screening measures. But we purchased a test called the Brigance Pages referencing for kindergarten and pre-K so that we can have truly quantitative info moving forward.
TEXT> We also use the asks for all of our kids it's ages and stages questionnaire, and we have social emotional. And then we also have the academic asks parents feel those out starting and then it's continued on through kindergarten.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Thank you.

[10768-57] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you for that. Pretty well sir.
TEXT> Okay. We'll transition to our the general business part of our meeting.  That means that our student rep report is due.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Not just.

[10768-62] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2020-03-04
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: I am in this play and it's a pretty funny play. On March 21st, the Student Voice will be hosting the Student Voice Conference at the high school from 8 to 2 p.m., with students attending from all across New Hampshire for Claremont Middle School.
TEXT> The project, the eighth grade project based learning group called Destination Boston, is hosting As We Ready Dinner on Friday, March 6th from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in The Sims Cafeteria. Proceeds will help fund this year's class trip to Boston. Please come in and join an evening meal and help support our students. Congratulations to Anya Bandy and eighth grader for winning the CMS geography B the competition was fierce, and stay tuned for an update later this month without her regional  eligibility for bluff and doesn't add, there was nothing known until April. From April, I have a tweet across America a week for all of the schools. So it's about Doctor Seuss. I'm not too sure about what's going on, but I know there's a bunch of themed days.  And for the sun and there's nothing.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions or comments. I actually have a couple. I want to make sure this is the former, guidance student services person throwing in a plug the for the financial aid

[10768-91] Mrs. Chesney | Stevens High School teacher; head advisor, Youth in Government (surnam | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: All right. Done.
TEXT> This part of youth and government ever. Nancy always took care of it for me. But now I'm the head advisor for youth in government this year.  So basically, in a nutshell, in my crass way, I'm here to ask for the blessing  to let youth in government go for their overnight trip this year.  And I brought a couple.
NEXT> Unidentified: Pictures for you to see what we can. We've been going to using.

[10768-95] Mrs. Chesney | Stevens High School teacher; head advisor, Youth in Government (surnam | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: I think, for over.
TEXT> 20 years. I know that Nancy took it over 18 years ago, the same year that I started at Stevens, and we've been going ever since. And I think that I'm not sure if Tom Tonioli had it before her or who had it before Nancy. But we've been going to youth in government for at least 18 years that I know of. We've never had any problems.  They have people  as part of the YMCA that go and monitor the hallways  all night long  at the hotel,  and make sure that there's no trouble. They have strict rules. The students have to sign a contract of their conduct, you know, saying that they know that they need to be responsible for their actions and that they will act accordingly. This year we hosted the  caucus where Newport and Kearsarge came to Stevens High School. And the students elect each other to different positions that we are given by the YMCA. And we did phenomenal. This year  we have 24 students going to youth in government total this year from Stevens and had many kids pick up position. Prescott Herzog  ran and got the senator position.
NEXT> Mrs. Chesney: We have three lobbyists Alicia Webster, Josh Treadway and Liberty Lamon. One of the positions I've never seen come to youth in government we got this year is Clark and

[10768-96] Mrs. Chesney | Stevens High School teacher; head advisor, Youth in Government (surnam | 2020-03-04
PREV> Mrs. Chesney: to different positions that we are given by the YMCA. And we did phenomenal. This year we have 24 students going to youth in government total this year from Stevens and had many kids pick up position. Prescott Herzog ran and got the senator position.
TEXT> We have three lobbyists Alicia Webster, Josh Treadway and Liberty Lamon.  One of the positions I've never seen come to youth in government we got this year is Clark  and Lauren. Fellows will be the House clerk on the House floor in Concord this year.  Reading bills. So we're training her because it's her first year. And she took on Clark, which I'm really excited for her. We have Gabby Savo and Caitlin Cox in in the press corps.  Carly Barrett got Health and Human Services chair. And Phil Mason, who's been quietly in youth in government for 3 or 4 years,  ended up getting co-chair of House Agriculture and Forestry. And then Nathan Savo  got the position of Supreme Court judge. So we did phenomenal at the caucus this year and  got a lot of positions. So I'm really excited for our kids. Riley has been part of Youth in government for three years now.  She's going to be she's a senior this year. So it's her last year. Last year she had two bills read on the floor, which is unprecedented. I've never seen. We usually have one kid, maybe two kids that will get a bill on the floor, but never the same kid who got two bills right on the floor. And she was great.  When she spoke to her bill on the floor.  But, unless you have any other any questions, be happy to answer them. You can talk to Riley.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions for Mrs. Chesney.

[10768-107] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: end of the year and will be drive. It will be a five year plan, for the next 3 to 5 years as a general framework. And then each year we will have specific follow up of those themes that are emerging from the plan.
TEXT> Okay. So, entry plans in general. We have to have achieved  outcomes and everything pertaining to student achievement and student outcomes and opportunities for everyone within the Saw.  And there's been committee work stakeholder groups. We've already developed a special advisory council. We also want to develop. And one of the things that came over the presentation of a potential looking at the elementary restructure. One of the things that came out of it that was really positive is we knew that we still had to hear from the community, which we did. And we now have an  assistant superintendent. Magoon is is following up with that committee as well. Listening to people, we have names, we have community members. And that was a that's a driver also for the strategic plan, because we started looking at at other types of feedback loops in participatory opportunities for  residents and students, in community members to help give us feedback on on what we're doing. And and I'll speak to that in a little bit about, Superintendent Advisory Council that we want to have and also the school councils. That is going to be that that is coming up. All right. So the timeline and I will publish all of this on the on the web.  We should be reporting out of the findings of the committees in March and April coming up really fast.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This whole year is going lightning round. We'll have the timeline and action steps for for the next five years. Very general action steps and deliverables. And then we'll have

[10768-108] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: is going to be that that is coming up. All right. So the timeline and I will publish all of this on the on the web. We should be reporting out of the findings of the committees in March and April coming up really fast.
TEXT> This whole year is going lightning round.  We'll have the timeline and action steps for for the next five years. Very general action steps and deliverables.  And then we'll have the timeline for next year, for May and June. That will drive our planning over the summer with the administrative team. And then each school we're looking for. And I want to clarify this for the people at home. This is not replacing any of our existing structures. We have amazing PTO, OS and booster groups and other types of groups already. These are councils where we are going to have equal representation of the school with 4 or 5 members of the school with the principal, teachers and counselors. And we're also looking for committed parents, of which we have many in the community to play a part of that,  that school council as well, and help to deliver, particularly on the community outreach in the other goals that the school establishes, all of which all of those goals will be around expanding and supporting student achievement. Okay. And whether that's social, academic and other types of achievement. And you'll see more of this, more of a of the template of this in the upcoming presentations. Okay.  So we will have year long school improvement plans where we're looking at performance targets for students, as well as other general community goals that will allow align to the to the other strategic plan  in the Advisory Council.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You will be hearing from this as we meet with the with the principals. You'll be seeing this in school newsletters and just ask ask around. Over the next couple

[10768-110] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And I know that we presented this. Again I'm just trying to refresh everyone's memory. Teacher supporting encouraging teaching and learning throughout Claremont. And those are the other bulleted points that the committees have been working on this year. And social emotional learning in general.
TEXT> And that that is also going to continue. This is a major thread that is going to continue next year.  The curriculum  staff under the  leadership of Donna McGowan, they are already setting up presentations and seminars and micro credentialing courses. All these things are all underway already for next year. It's pretty exciting work. All right. These are the other committees that we've posted of all the other people participating. These are the six areas that have emerged. Okay. And I mentioned the first one, learning and teaching at six to improve student achievement. At the focus of it, that that is our goal. This is going to be what drives everything within that strand initiative. And it's the most important thing. It's why we're in the business. Increasing student time on learning. So that's the not only is that literally the actual time in the calendar, how we use that time. It also has to do with the time spent with in courses, in classes, in scheduling, how many? We have a scheduling committee meeting on that too. Well, how much time should we be meeting for each subject area? All of those  types  of concerns are being vetted.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We're also looking at the time that it takes for staff development, professional development in the day. Other types of initiatives, all of those things that lead to student achievement

[10768-111] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to do with the time spent with in courses, in classes, in scheduling, how many? We have a scheduling committee meeting on that too. Well, how much time should we be meeting for each subject area? All of those types of concerns are being vetted.
TEXT> We're also looking at the time that it takes for staff development, professional development in the day. Other types of initiatives, all of those things that lead to student achievement outcomes.  This we're really excited about in the particularly with the up coming vote. Okay. For the budget, we worked hard to negotiate for contracts so that we could keep and retain the best and the brightest teachers, paraprofessionals, custodians and secretaries. And we feel confident that we will and we feel confident now that our salaries are competitive and the like that we're going to keep we're going to attract more folks. And we're also  aggressively going, starting in just a couple of weeks. We're going on recruiting tours and all the teaching colleges and in the in the area to get  to look for the best and the brightest for next year staffing. And we know that we have some retirements, we know that we have some turnover. And we obviously we know that we have the four new budgeted positions at the middle school. So we want to get out early and we want to actively seek out the best and the brightest for those school safety efforts, again, working with the police and fire departments for that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We are working on the special ed programs and programing at the s a year now, and we spoke about those specific programs where we're looking for the autism, and

[10768-112] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we have the four new budgeted positions at the middle school. So we want to get out early and we want to actively seek out the best and the brightest for those school safety efforts, again, working with the police and fire departments for that.
TEXT> We are working on the special ed programs and programing at the s a year now, and we spoke about those specific programs  where we're looking for the autism, and we're also looking to bring back some elements of the  other support programs as well, like like pride in the Pride Classroom at Maple and the alternative program at the high school as well, looking at all those things. But in addition, and maybe even before we look at a lot of those programs, we're also looking for supports that have been identified that our students need so that they don't need those programs so that they stay closest to the mainstream curriculum, and so that we don't have to have these other supports after the fact, as people alluded to before. But if we have the support, social emotional support, other types of interventions earlier, as you heard in the early childhood presentation, we know that we can sure up the students for the full run academic run. So,  and the governance structure that I was just talking about is with the to have school councils with articulated goals for each year and to have representation on those councils, in addition to all the benefits we have of our existing toes.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I know it's a speed round, but we have a full agenda today. Sorry with that teaching and learning. We are looking to start the practice of instructional rounds. We

[10768-135] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: Right on the front page of what's happening.
TEXT> We don't have any overseas trips coming up in the immediate future for any of our kids.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: No, no.

[10768-163] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: For the.
TEXT> Past period of time is trying to wrap my arms around the financial review of the school district as it relates to our whole food process.  I'm  getting an awful lot of information, which is good. I've been given access to a lot of information that I didn't have before, and historical information as it relates to how many kids are eating the different meals. And what's interesting is not a lot of our kids are eating breakfast, and not a lot of our kids are reading lunch,  but  also in conversation with other business managers around our area to try and get an idea. Are we different or are we not on that one? Because this allows us to then build a real financial model that says, you know, if only 35% of our high school students are going to be eating lunch, then it tells us what we're going to have as far as financial resources to continue to provide. Are we providing for courses or five courses or what is it will be looking to provide going forward?  We are seeing a very significant drop off in breakfast, being eaten in our buildings, and a lot of that, I think, is unintended consequences  of decisions that are made in each one of the buildings. What are the kids do when they come in and when can they get in the building?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: How do we get the breakfast down to the students more easily? That one should be really almost a slam dunk from our point of view. If we've got 35%

[10768-164] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: in breakfast, being eaten in our buildings, and a lot of that, I think, is unintended consequences of decisions that are made in each one of the buildings. What are the kids do when they come in and when can they get in the building?
TEXT> How do we get the breakfast down to the students more easily?  That one should be really almost a slam dunk from our point of view. If we've got 35% of our kids who are on free and reduced, we should at least be at 35% on that one. There are some decisions that were made in our policy, such as not being willing to or or not having coffee served, for example, at the high school. And so what's happening is a lot of our kids are getting coffee elsewhere. They're bringing it to school. They're sitting in the classroom with their coffee, but we can't have it. And therefore there's not the incentive for them to come get coffee from Abby group and breakfast at the same time. So it's things like this that I think are worthy of a fair amount of more conversation. As far as is that where we want to be? How are we handling some of the decisions that we're making as a school district and that our building leaders are making? So what I'd like to be able to do is come back to the board with a more in-depth financial discussion  of really what what makes our food service work. What, for example, has been the impact of being totally free within bluff?  And what has that done to us? I've been asked the question by, I think, a couple of different board members.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: If we decide we want to give up all of our federal reimbursement money. What does that do to us? And, you know, it's a it's a good question. I

[10768-180] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: But this is this is proposed legislation at the state level that we're monitoring.
TEXT> May I ask also, is there a willingness or an interest to have Abby Group come here for one of the board meetings? There's a lot of discussion of what's being served, and it's either good or bad or tasty or not tasty. Whatever. Is there any interest of having them come? Somebody from the high school or one of the cooks from the middle school, and basically what the kids got that day, they share with us. So and I don't know if we've done that before, but a little it'll eliminate some of this. It's good, it's bad. It's whatever it might be.
NEXT> Jason Benware: We did that last year. They brought us some really nice cookies.

[10768-203] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Jason Benware: In the policy that was made.
TEXT> It is. And again, again, we can bring that back. But and the challenge, of course, when you walk around the school in the mornings and you look in the classrooms, they're all sitting there either with their companies or their Dunkin Donuts coffees on their desk. So it's not that the kids aren't getting caffeinated drinks, they're just not getting them within our structure.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And so the policy says we cannot offer caffeinated drinks or we cannot have caffeinated drinks in the store.

[10768-212] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: We should have.
TEXT> If you look in your latest legislative update from the School Board Association, and you actually get on and look through them, a representative has proposed, allowing  us as a district to take uneaten food, freeze it, and then give it back to the kids to take home with them over the weekend. So that's that's actually if you look, you'll see it's in there, the latest email we got. So it's an interesting things if you I like looking through there because it's so many of them parallel. Will you talk about.
NEXT> Jason Benware: What would be really good. Because if we were prepared and we had a bunch of questions we came up with and we provided them to the Abbey group.

[10768-243] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Ben Nester: to implement, implement the rules. And, we have certain guidance documents in place, but there's more guidance documents coming in. I'll touch on that in a minute. And then we're still waiting for clarity on two key issues. So here's the good news. The new.
TEXT> Rules are very clear that. They've gone back to the way things used to be, which was what we wanted. That speech and language pathologists, physical therapists, occupational therapists can order their own services within the scope of their practice. Right. So we don't have to rely on an MD or someone like that to order. And then Bill and then subsequently Bill for those services in that accounts for a portion of what of what we submit claims for, not the largest portion. It's not the lion's share. I want to point that out. Medical doctors April ends. Physicians assistants can and must order other services, at least currently under the law. And the guidance documents, such as paraprofessionals or rehab assistance, nursing, and then a few other less common billable services. As I mentioned in the timeline there, there. Are. There are two key unresolved issues that came up at the stakeholder meeting yesterday in Concord.  One is around when an MD, Orders a service. Does the medical doctor have to have a face to face evaluation of the child before he orders the service, which we can then bill for right?  Or can the medical doctor review documentation say the kid's IEP, review it, sign the order. Right. That that question was raised by one of my colleagues. The the thinking at the time.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And there was there was a variety of different licensing boards there yesterday. One of them was I think it's the New Hampshire Medical Licensing Board. He was a medical

[10768-245] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Oh, yeah. There we go. It's supposed to emphasize item two. So paraprofessionals or rehabilitative assistance as they're referred to sort of on the Medicaid side of things. Account for the lion's share of our, of our Medicaid billable services that we have historically recouped.
TEXT> Right. We get a lot of money for those services. The and I asked this question directly yesterday because under the emergency rules, it limited what a rehab assistant could be billed for to to it really narrowed it to something like personal care. That was some of the original language in one of the drafts. So if a child needs say, example maybe like bathroom support, right. We could bill for that as a medically necessary service.  If that if we were limited to that work that a paraprofessional does, we wouldn't be able to get much in, you know, reimbursement. Right. So, what the new guidance documents are going to do  are hopefully provide us in the field a little guidance on that and broaden that definition  of what a paraprofessional does that is billable. And I do and I do. I don't want to be alarmist here. I think that's going to be I think it's going to go in our favor. One of the Department of Health and Human Services, workers there was did some work in the field. She went out to several different school districts around the state and actually spent time in the schools seeing what paraprofessionals do, the way they implement services.
NEXT> Ben Nester: You know, for kids. And she had a she sort of was nodding and affirming that, yes, you know, they do a lot more. And we should be able to

[10768-264] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah, yeah. Right now it's free. Right.
TEXT> So my last, point, I went to the last MSP meeting here in town, and Susan was there, and,  they actually provided us with a sheet of paper, defining medically necessary in the context of rehab assistance. It was pretty inclusive. Yeah. And it's everything that really what we were have been. If the student needs help with organization,  help with behavior management in the class. These were all  were all accepted as medically necessary interventions for rehab assistant. So I'm hoping that they're right. That, Yeah. And I'm sure they were there yesterday. They were so.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, absolutely. Yeah.

[10768-287] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12 (name as self-identified at [424],  | 2020-03-04
PREV> Steve Moss: the country have programs that are similar to this sort of or Grow Your Own teacher program, where we allow students to get a sense of what it's like to be a teacher, to find out if that's a career path that that interested in.
TEXT> We start discussing some of the concepts about child development with them. We get into the psychology of it, and it's pretty interesting because sometimes the kids go, oh, that's why teacher does this, that and it's it's kind of information for one kids. It's a really exciting opportunity we can do there. We also added a Newport business program. The Newport CTE  has had a business program for quite some time. We haven't advertised it in our own POS, so we included that for the sake of advertising their program with our contractual agreement that we have with them. So that's just was put in there  at the high school. A couple changes are we're creating the web and print design program, sort of updating that and taking two classes and combining it together to do web and print design. It's something that they wanted to do to kind of sort of modernize the program, update a little bit for technology that has been changed. And then the really big one is changing the intro to career readiness and college and career readiness, and adding Navy and Navy. ONS is a it's a college application program, and you can speak more to that. Yeah, sure. Why don't you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Speak more? Step right. Yeah. I'm ready. Colonel, I'm one of the school counselors, by the way. So really quick Navy is a it started off as a college program.

[10768-297] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12 (name as self-identified at [424],  | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: It's the program. It said yeah.
TEXT> Okay. Another change is the addition of structured language course. This is of course for struggling readers and writers. And currently we have a fundamentals biology course. And this course is sort of for those same children, but based at for reading and writing, sort of an English level course for them.  There is a need for that. So we, we really want to make sure that that was available for our students.  A big change with the math is this, changing the accelerated algebra. So now they're going to we're going to have a, a general algebra one, an intermediate sort of p course and honors course. And so there is one thing. I mean, it took me about six months to really figure out the difference between what algebra one was and accelerated algebra one and pre-algebra. And this one was half a year and this one was a whole year. And so it was very confusing even for me. I would agree in it, still couldn't figure it out. So we've kind of gone to streamline this program and offering algebra one of these three different levels. So algebra one general is going to replace pre-algebra.
NEXT> Steve Moss: So students will go from math skills one, skills two into algebra one general. Then there's going to be the college prep algebra one. And that will be an entry

[10768-298] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12 (name as self-identified at [424],  | 2020-03-04
PREV> Steve Moss: so it was very confusing even for me. I would agree in it, still couldn't figure it out. So we've kind of gone to streamline this program and offering algebra one of these three different levels. So algebra one general is going to replace pre-algebra.
TEXT> So students will go from math skills one, skills two  into algebra one general. Then there's going to be the college prep algebra one. And that will be an entry point for students that have reasonable skills in math. And then there's the honors algebra one, which will be an entry point for students that want to take more of an advanced math. All three of those classes are going to be a year long now, so that we can give that instruction. We did a survey around and found out that Fall Mountain has an  algebra A and B that they offer. It's it's a full year for each course. So we're trying to, to,  you know, allow our students to have that time that they need to really focus in on that math and help develop that. Yes, sir.
NEXT> Jason Benware: That's interrupt. But just for clarification sake. So your your introductory algebra, your basic algebra you're calling intermediate algebra, is that what you're calling? That's correct okay.

[10768-382] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yep.
TEXT> Maybe one in front of the high school if we can find it. CMS is there as well. That's fantastic. Congratulate school people for getting that done. But I don't want people, anybody to say, gee, I didn't know that. It's important that people get out and vote. Support your schools. Support our kids. Very important. Jason.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So there's there's been at least one article to the letter to the editor that's characterized, us as frittering away the taxpayers money. Getting getting all this money from the

[10842-242] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2020-05-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So,  as a high school senior,  I obviously don't know what's going to happen with my graduation yet. I do know that the community has made us yard signs, and I want to give a shout out to Miss Porter, who is one of the most amazing people in the school district. She's been very good doing this time. I also want to say,  that remote learning is not easy, and it's not for everybody. And I want the community to really hear me on this, that it's not for every student. It's not for everybody. But reach out to your teachers if you have any issues. Parents, reach out to the futures. My teachers have been super understanding. I actually felt behind in a lot of my classes, and then they actually got me back up pretty easy. They're willing to meet with me  late at night, early in the morning, whenever my free time.  And I do want to say that there is. Is that all of the schools? If people need food from 9 to 12 every day. Monday to Friday.  And that's really it.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Great.

[10842-244] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: Great.
TEXT> Thank you. Any questions for the student representative? I'm sure I have a lot, but I don't know if I don't want to hug all the time.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I I'm Tyler, I, I was on the ground. I am on the graduation committee, so. And, Mike and I touch bases today. I think you'll be happy with the

[10842-295] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries some of the chair's floor  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of the things that were going on in terms that were going to pick up in the fall in the, hopefully. And we don't know, nothing is is determined yet as to reopening and things like that, but eventually we will be back to normal.
TEXT> And maybe a new normal, as everyone is saying.  But obviously with all the health precautions that will be needed. And, and we're, we're looking forward to some, some normalcy in interaction with the students. It's tough not not to see the kids in their, you know, energy and growth. So, the just to say the other ones that, that we, that we there obviously will be a little bit of a delay in the strategic plan because we're, we're just targeting reporting out over the next couple of weeks and kind of summarizing and pushing, some of the meetings that we in the wrap up that we had scheduled in our last meeting, if you remember, to really have a big run up in May and June, some of that might be delayed out a little bit. Some some groups aren't ready to present, but the ones that that are Will. And then we will, we will meet again obviously with the school committee as well, looking at goals and areas. And we we will resume all of those things that we've set in structure, just a temporary hiatus. So, teaching and learning was a is a big focus. In the time online and also the recruiting and retaining the teachers that is and counselors and Paris, that is one thing that is going incredibly well in this. Jamie Young in our HR department has been doing a great job.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have actually been able to because of the positions and the budget being secured early. I get out early with, with recruiting. And, and we have a lot of

[10842-305] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member; elected Vice Chair at this meeting [96] | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sure. Go ahead.
TEXT> There was some data that was distributed  concerning Newport's attendance,  on the online, school, etc. and they were pretty dismal. And they were having a number of seniors that were at risk for failing and not graduating. And I just was curious to know if we had any of that data, to find out where we are with that, because I think as a concern to a lot of people in the community that the kids aren't sure.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Sure.

[10842-310] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries some of the chair's floor  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: Be I.
TEXT> Right now, I don't have hard numbers. To to speak about, but I can't say anecdotally, as we check in a couple times a week with the entire administrative team, is that most students, most students are engaged in their participating, as as Tyler mentioned before. It's a challenge in a lot of cases. It really is. It's not not for everyone to be completely remote instantly. And and so and there's other family commitments and other types of those things have been challenging. But by and large, in, in particularly at Stevens, people are participating in some of the students who, some students who struggled before  are also some of the same struggles, and we already have them identified in the region. Pretty much the same thing in middle school, which they've they've really, aggressively, hybrid things with Google Classroom and things like that. So they're doing pretty well.  The in the elementary, it was a tough transition, but we're hearing positive things about the access there as well. So I don't have the hard numbers for you though, Heather. And we can we can look at those and try to have those for the next meeting.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I have a laundry list. Is it okay with everybody if I just kind of go through my questions and maybe I will have my questions, will answer your

[10842-364] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: What are the, rules around waivers for schools to end? And, how does that affect school systems? You know, with the dollar amount saying that a little bit so parents can understand why we wouldn't be choosing to do a waiver to end school early.
TEXT> Sure. The reason why we wouldn't need a waiver, a waiver would be for anyone that would be ending school, not completing the mandatory $990. So the state gave us the amount of hours a child should be in school at the upper level, and it was 990 hours. So based on that, with us doing with us going until June 5th and having that a half day, we would be going a little bit above the 990 hours, so we would not be required to put in a waiver in the waiver.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Which, I mean, could you really?

[10842-368] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: choose to do a waiver? I've done a little research, and I think there's like a dollar amount of to some of that. If, if schools choose to fill out a waiver and end school before their allotted hours. Do you have any on that?
TEXT> I'm not familiar with any  dollar amounts that would be allotted to that. We just wanted to make sure our kids were getting the best out of the education in the Claremont School District, so we didn't want to our kids to end school any earlier than the 990 hours. But I don't know if Mike has heard anything about money, but I have not heard anything about, us having to pay for a waiver or anything such as that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, I think and I, I don't, I don't know specifically and haven't heard about, I think that I haven't heard the same information that you've heard, Rebecca. But I

[10842-373] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member; Vice Chair until the election at this m | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: we don't have access to. Comcast. We're you know, we're in a DSL, pretty primitive setup compared to what other people have. So it's certainly a it's a huge issue. And I'm glad you said that, Rebecca, because I think something needs to be heard.
TEXT> Right. And I feel for people because we have a solid, pretty solid house here. And we're lucky and we're blessed that we're still working. But I just, you know, when we're talking about kids education and and going to school until June 5th because we want them to get the education. I think there's a whole pool of children out there who are excelling and who are getting the education, and they are grabbing onto it. But I also think there is a great pool of kids out there who are discouraged, and their families are breaking down and their parents are breaking down because it's not accessible. So I just want to at least make sure that we recognize that, because this is  really challenging for so many people.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Carol. Carolyn, did you want to say something?

[10842-391] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member; elected Vice Chair at this meeting [96] | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: about the discussion we've had. It's pretty, I think that that's another form of advocacy for the people that we represent is to get that so that people, they're in Washington here, not just not just people in Claremont, either. You going to say something?
TEXT> How are the children's grade overall GPA going to be affected, or how is their advancement going to be affected if they tend not to thrive in this environment? Will we be holding students back if they, you know, perform miserably during this period of time? Or. I mean. Are we going to treat it like any other school day, or is this a special circumstance? When we're going to advance children that aren't demonstrating, or how are we going to be able to ensure that the learners that are struggling now will be able to perform the next school year?
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So part of the part of the requirement, Heather, is that as a curriculum team and as a district, we need to look at what our beginning of the school

[10842-393] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: and, you know, to educate those students, to bring them closer to together, as we have been all along, except now our gap, maybe a little bit bigger. And so now we need to come up with ways to put items into place to help.
TEXT> Help. Close that gap as far as the high school level goes, their their credit based so their credits would be affected by that. And we have things in place. We have teachers calling the the students.  We have the principal reaching out to the students. If that's not successful, we do have, our SRO going to the home to make sure to a well check to make sure that the students are okay  and if they need anything from us, we have a porter that's going out and visiting to see. Is there anything that we can do as a district to help you? You know, we've supplied the the  phone books. As you know,  we've also worked with a consolidation to support us and putting Wi-Fi into homes of people that did not have it. So we have been working very, very strongly with the families to make sure that it is successful. But we will have things in place once the school start to make sure that we work on closing those gaps with our kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[10842-396] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member; Vice Chair until the election at this m | 2020-05-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: You're welcome.
TEXT> So, Donna, what do we do about the kids who are like my son in his situation? Not to make this all about me, but I'm sure there's more kids like him who are having six hours a day of work in are completely discouraged, because it's taking so long to do their work and access their work. You know, that's what I'm worried about. Like, there's no way I'm not going to let him do it. But it's also extremely discouraging. And it's breaking down family dynamics because it's it's not the work that's challenging. It's the amount of effort and time it takes to put into that work. You know, for a 14 year old.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Right. Well, one of the things that we have. Well, one of the things that we did, we have sent out and we sent out guides for parents for as

[10842-397] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: to let him do it. But it's also extremely discouraging. And it's breaking down family dynamics because it's it's not the work that's challenging. It's the amount of effort and time it takes to put into that work. You know, for a 14 year old.
TEXT> Right. Well, one of the things that we have. Well, one of the things that we did, we have sent out and we sent out guides for parents for as far as remote learning, as well as the 1010 tips for parents when working with children. And one of the things that we've always said, get a hold of the teacher. We can have FaceTime with the teacher. We can look at having a pair come in and help help the students, you know, so there are things that we can we can put in place. The child should not be spending that much time on that. And if that is what's happening then, then I would reach out to the teacher and let them know what's going on. And if it's a matter of, you know, I don't know if it's the actual classwork itself, if maybe there's something that the teacher can do to assist with that. But, you know, you should not be spending that much time. We did put out how much time a child should be on doing the work, and if it's going over that we did it by grade level.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And if it does go over that, then I think that a phone call to, I mean, either a phone call because our staff do have phones that they can

[10842-398] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: teacher can do to assist with that. But, you know, you should not be spending that much time. We did put out how much time a child should be on doing the work, and if it's going over that we did it by grade level.
TEXT> And if it does go over that, then I think that a phone call to, I mean,  either a phone call because our  staff do have phones that they can be reached at. But as well as reaching out to them and saying, hey, look, my, you know, my students struggling and what can the teacher do to help? We did also put in a, catch up Wednesday day that is is mainly for that purpose for kids to  to catch up on some of the work that they have not been able to complete, as well as, have FaceTime. Our teachers are available every day, but especially Wednesdays to have that FaceTime with the kids that need to be caught up our the work that we have for our students, the reason why we did it the way we we do is because our kids, if you if the work that is assigned on Monday, if it's not completed on Monday, that's okay. Your child has all week to do that work into the weekend. The work is not considered late until the following Monday. So kids have some kids are. A lot of kids have been looking at the work and getting it all done in a couple of days, and some kids have been waiting till the weekend to do to do the work. I don't know if that helps.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That's good information. Thank you.

[10842-524] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Benware, Petrin an | 2020-05-06
PREV> Jeff Small: Look.
TEXT> And again, what we need to understand is when we when we get around to going back to the normal, all lunches cannot be submitted as, as in effect, free lunches. Right. So then we're back to some that are free  and some that are  and some that are paid for. And we're also back into the discussion of any kind of delinquencies we have on the payment of lunches. So that's still a separate conversation than  the current issue that we have going on in the current way that we responded to try and get meals into the hands of the kids, in Claremont and in our schools.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So.

[10842-536] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Benware, Petrin an | 2020-05-06
PREV> Jeff Small: Well, yeah.
TEXT> Yeah, I have my I mean, I certainly have my opinions on this. I have spoken with Abby group about what could make, what could make our financials for the food service more attractive. We actually have very little usage of our meal service at the middle school. And I'm sorry, at at the high school, we had many of our kids, even those that qualify for free or reduced lunches that are not, that are not coming in and taking them each day they're leaving campus or finding something else that they want to do. So in order to, you know, it's back to the conversation we had a couple of months ago of do we ratchet back the offerings that we're providing in our cafeteria right now, which will certainly change the economics of this? Or do we find ways of trying to have the kids stay on campus and eat the lunches? And I mean, they're reaching they they provided tried to provide, for example, the same kind of  of subs that they have at Tremont or the other pizza places, or it's the same kind of pieces. So there's a range of things they're doing, but we still have very low usage at the high school. And I mean, we're talking maybe 200 meals that will do there out of the 600 plus kids. And yet we're offering the greatest number of options and therefore the greatest costs.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So is there any is there any what would the savings be if we ratcheted that back? Would it be meaningful enough to make sense? Or is it.

[10842-542] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Benware, Petrin an | 2020-05-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: Richard, I have a question. Is it possible that, this will go after June 30th?
TEXT> There is currently a waiver that is being requested to provide the meals for the remainder of the summer. So the state is in conversation with the federal government, the USDA, on that. I would say it's highly likely that this will go through July and August and that and that that waiver will be put into place. If the waiver is not put into place, then in order to provide meals to our kids, you have to have what's called congregant eating. So they need to come into a room and eat the meal there, and the child needs to be there to do so. And that just seems to be contrary to all the social distancing discussions that are going on. So the bed is they will be able to continue to do this free meals with 100%. Through July 3rd. Starting to getting into the question of what next year is, and hopefully we get back to some kind of a norm when we get into next school year. So we are we are preparing to do this through the summer that we we don't get the waiver. We'll end our food program on June 30th.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: But can I just say, Jason, we're getting feedback from you.

[10842-555] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Benware, Petrin an | 2020-05-06
PREV> Jeff Small: Sure.
TEXT> That we have a meaningful decision on this just yet. Heather, I think we will have a meaningful decision at our next meeting when there's a conversation. On renewing the contract with Abby Group. I think right now the economics are such that we are in a positive position going forward with the waivers that are currently in place, and I would highly recommend we continue to do the meals we're currently doing, because I think it's I think it's a very positive thing for the kids in Claremont. I agree, but coming back on the economics and looking at it into next year, at our next meeting, we should be having a conversation on here's what the economics are. And and this is the reality of offering food service. But again, if they're willing to do it at a no cost to us, then I can't see why we wouldn't continue to do at least at no cost, assuming we can solve this payment issue that we have on the other side.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I guess the question that I'm trying to parse out here is, is the problem Abby group or is it? Sounds to me the problem is collections and not

[10842-557] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Benware, Petrin an | 2020-05-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: So I guess the question that I'm trying to parse out here is, is the problem Abby group or is it? Sounds to me the problem is collections and not really Abby group. And that's kind of a universally accepted understanding.
TEXT> I would say that is true. I think Abby Group knows the business as well as anyone knows the business,  and they've got a on some of the purchases, on their training, on their people, on their compliance and everything else. The challenge we have is we don't have enough of our kids who are taking advantage of the food program, including those that could be getting free meals. And if they're not taking a free meal, or if we're not offering a breakfast that they want to eat during the school year, we're not getting that reimbursement either. So I think there are some procedural things that we can put into place to make it easier for our students to get a breakfast, to get a lunch, both of them reimbursable, which will have an impact on the financials of our food service program. But those would be done building by building. I'm not sure that that's a board related decision. I think that's more of a principal and building leader type of discussion to try and change the number of meals that we're that we're able to serve and reimburse.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's interesting.

[10842-560] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-05-06
PREV> Jeff Small: With.
TEXT> With the situation at Stevens because we worked, as you know, Richard, we enhanced the the cafeteria. We put in different seating. We renovated it, we redid the kitchen, brought in Abby Group in the hope that that would be  the appeal to, to students to to want to stay there and enjoy the environment and, and the food. It'd be interesting to find out from the kids themselves why why they're not eating there. What if it's the is it the physical environment? Is it the food? What is it? Or just. Yeah. Of the need to go out. Just get out for a little while.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The number of seedings is it the. So I think there are a number of answers to that one Frank. But I also believe that we have the ability to

[10842-585] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I'll second that. Okay.
TEXT> Heather seconded it. Motion was, made by Jason and seconded by Heather. Further discussion on all the handbooks. And again, one of the things I think that bothered us last year was the fact that we, got them at about the same time that they would have been distributed to the to the parents and the kids. And we had specifically asked you to get those earlier. So thank you for the the work to get those to us in a timely way to all the administrators. So that being said, all those in favor will do roll call Frank Sprague  Frank says I. Rebecca. Jason Benwell. Rob Lovett, junior. High Michael patron.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I.

[10842-634] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-05-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: 325,000. I'll second.
TEXT> Okay. Further discussion on that. The only thing I would say is it's really when people ask questions about, the amount of social workers and supports for these students. And I'll always say it when given the opportunity that it's really, really important that, these students receive a lot of mental health support and a lot of, intervention types of support. So there are no learning is going to take place until the overarching issues have been, stabilized in these students. So, really, really a critical piece of, of all this programing. So that being said. Frank Sprague, I, Rebecca  Zullo. Jason  Ben where. I Rob Lovett junior.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: High.

[10876-58] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, takes his own ro | 2020-06-03
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Sadly. I'm alone.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you for that. To catch on that. All right, let's move to the student representative report. Tyler.
NEXT> Tyler: I'm here. Somebody just messaged me about the information to join us for that up. So before I say my I'm missing, go into it. So for Stephen's high school,

[10876-64] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, takes his own ro | 2020-06-03
PREV> Tyler: to my teachers face and face to face. However, if any teachers are listening out there, I would like to say that I had the time of my life being in your classes for the last four years. That's how I'd like to spend that.
TEXT> I'm sure that some of you have some comments for the for the student rep. Welcome to. Yeah. It has been a pleasure having you, Tyler.  And I know the hard work that you've done. I know your leadership  with the student body and  everything that you've done.  You put your heart and soul into all that you do,  and,  we'll miss you. I know you're going to be around, and. And I know that we'll stay in touch. As you pursue your career in education. So,   the best to you.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And I'll just pick you back. Tyler, thank you so much for everything. We really appreciate everything you've done, and we know you're going to be very successful. Make sure

[10876-113] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the agenda from [329]; cluster also | 2020-06-03
PREV> Carolyn Towle: as I said before, I think every board member wants the very best for, for our graduates, in order to walk on through their next horizon of their life. So, let's all try to work together and make this the best we can for them.
TEXT> So I just want to jump in, having coordinated eight graduations at Stevens High School myself, that after about my fifth or sixth one, we eliminated categorically parents taking photos of trying to come forward in the gym, trying to get posturing to try to get that shot of their student. We just eliminated that and had a professional come in and provide the service that's being offered this year. Number one, it's a much better quality photo. And two, it is again extremely hard to control. I had to have 2 or 3 staff members down there, people jockeying for position making, checking to see who is in line, getting the right people to the front. It was a nightmare. So that that that practice has not been in place for quite a while, where parents could jump up and take photos of their kids graduating. And for those two reasons, one, it's a safety issue, and the other is,  we can provide a much better photo with a professional doing a stage photo. So,  I'm not sure why we're back on that topic, but it's one that we put to bed a number of years ago.
NEXT> Matt Upton: Frank. That's exactly why why Franklin has chose the model they did. Because they were concerned that they couldn't control people getting out of their cars, congregating and, trying to

[10876-118] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Yeah. Yep. There it is.
TEXT> All right, so, we have a bunch of items. One one was just covered, and, so everyone, the one most pertinent on on all students of all levels is, what might the reopening of schools look like? And we still don't know is the short answer. We we know that it's highly unlikely it's going to be a traditional opening. Most likely in what we're planning for is a hybrid opening. People have also spoken about  having staggered schedules and all kinds of other  possibilities. What we're also doing is putting a team together with some parent volunteer parent volunteers. People have reached out.  We are going to use, one of our existing committees that has been doing work as as the focus of this committee, and that's the Teaching and Learning and Technology committee, because particularly if we go to a hybrid, they're going to be point people in their buildings and we're going to,  have approximately 10 or 15 people on that committee looking at ways we can reopen. Of course, we have to follow, guidance from from the state in, you know, and everyone's hoping that there'll be some type of vaccine and things like that before we resume in full scale. And as everyone knows, just following in the press to  us, there's a lot of talk of anticipating  a comeback of, of of Covid and no one really knows.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we are that that's the bad news. That's the bad news for everyone across the country. We're not alone. We realize that. But we also have some good news

[10876-134] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the schools, in the classrooms, say, if you have a class of 20 and then you staggered every other day and you had 10 in 1 day in another set of ten, and the other day in opposite those days, they were doing remote work.
TEXT> Those are some of the things that have been proposed. There's, you know, good and bad to both of those things, you know, in many other models. And that's what why we're putting the committee together to kind of get many, many viewpoints on on how this those things would play out from itinerants to nurses to, you know, mental health workers, obviously teachers, technology folks. And we want to have the best, obviously the best possible environment for our students. So it's a lot of work and and we're getting on it and we're  that's something else. You know,  all of this, it goes without saying, is unprecedented. We've never done these types of things. So, we do we have some other exciting things as well, you know, that are, that are happening that are getting sidelined a little bit by it. But, but we're, we're, we're, we're going through with everything. So people will be reporting back about the progress of this.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Rebecca, I'm going to jump in with a quick question. Let me jump in first. Okay. I got a quick sorry. Recently I saw a letter from Biddy Irwin to

[10876-138] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Thank you. Go ahead. Rebecca.
TEXT> I just wanted to say that I'm super worried for parents about the ability to sustain this type of learning for their kids at home, and I was curious to know if  we would be able to,  look over the results of the surveys that have been sent out. Like, will the school board be privy to that information and the responses or the community, or how is that going to work.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: When when we have all of that, I will I will share everything I have and it would be great, as well as share everything with the whole board. But

[10876-150] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Go ahead, go ahead.
TEXT> Mike, for those kids, like I mentioned the last thing, it took nine minutes to load one six minute video. So for those kids who are struggling with  internet services or families, I think it's great that they have Chromebooks. And I think it's great that our school district is trying to match that and take care of that piece. But who would parents contact for,  kids who are struggling with the internet service like mine, for example, who have satellite? I can't be the only one in the district. So do we call you or do we call Jeff or.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah.

[10876-155] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as Donna [243], [354], [396 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to it more readily than I can, but, we have really narrowed that down to a proximately. And those guys know the exact numbers are 30 or 40, households. And even then, we we have a plan as well, Donna, if you want to share.
TEXT> So what we normally do is we would have the the people reach out, the parents reach out to the building principal. And the building principal then sends something to me. And I have a, a running document that I put that information. So I know all the parents that need Wi-Fi. And we've been working with companies to go out to parents, households and install, in most cases, Wi-Fi for them. But we're also looking at, Wi-Fi devices that will that will link directly to Chromebooks for certain students to be able to use. So it would only work on their Chromebook. So it wouldn't be a Wi-Fi like a hotspot that would be utilized for everybody in the household that would just be connected to the student's Chromebook, so that the student can get the work done that they need to get done via a hotspot. That's right. They're connected to their home book, so we're looking into that as well.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. I'll be calling you to go on your list.

[10876-164] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: All right.
TEXT> So I had graduation. We did. You can see it now. You see, the pictures of myself were out there actually seeing if we could pull it off. And many thanks as well to,  chief Chase in chief. I mean, they we we did everything we could to pull this off, and we we couldn't do it even, I that's that's all I'll say. When when you see the space. I understand the perspective of folks when you look at it, that. Wow. If only we could do this.  And I get it, and I it it is frustrating on our end to we would love to have everything that we could have for for the kids. Okay. And we're going to we'll still listen to that and we'll still try to add to what we can do for, for graduation.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I'd like to thank Mike parks also.

[10876-168] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (ASR 'Mr. Nestor') | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: in right here in Claremont, and we're working on it. So, Ben can also, if you're still on Ben, you can if you can talk about I mentioned the social work that we're hiring. You can talk about the extended y opportunities for special ed.
TEXT> Yeah, sure. So, yeah, like, like Mike said, very excited about the partner classroom. It's going to be great. We've got, I got my internet cut out just as you were starting to talk about this mic, so I. Know you, but, we've got that for kiddos slotted to be in the partner classroom next year, two of which are coming back from out of district. Again, good for kids, good for the bottom line. In terms of the social work positions, again, I'm not intimately involved with the hiring of the social workers,  but, next year we are going to be rolling out a real focus. We're creating what we've dubbed a mental health dream team, if you will, where we're going to be bringing in our special education school psychologists and our three social workers. And we've already began begin meeting on this. We're anticipating some increased mental health needs, some behavioral needs as we move into the fall.  You know, given the remote instruction period and the whole pandemic. So anyway, we're just we're going to be deliberate and systematic in the way we, meet mental health needs in the district, moving forward.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And then lastly, we are offering an expanded, extended school year for our special education students. We're essentially offering extended school year for any special education student that is interested.

[10876-175] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Assistant Superintendent | 2020-06-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: The question was whether or not we would receive a waiver. The state would receive a waiver to continue to do this program beyond June 30th. And the government did come back and say that that waiver was provided to New Hampshire to do it.
TEXT> We have put in a requisite applications to them. There were a couple of questions  that came back today. I know the D who has been handling this for us responded to those questions, but we expect to have the final approval to be able to continue the food program  up through August 31st, which basically gets us into the next school year,  which will which will be which will be great for our kids and those that are currently taking advantage of getting the meals. So we have set up as of now, pending this final approval from the state that we will be having the busses continue to be working with us through the summer.  The people from Abby group will also continue to be working with us through the summer.  Providing the meals and then taking all of the actions necessary to provide meals and delivering meals to people in much hotter temperatures. So, we did get a grant from  the state to be able to purchase some additional coolers and some additional tools so that we can keep the cold things cold and the warm things warm that we're trying to get out to our families. This then speaks into any kind of a renewal that we have with Abby Group.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Normally with Abby Group, they would be quiet during the summer. They would have ended their program at the end of school, and then we would look to start up

[10876-178] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Assistant Superintendent | 2020-06-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: and I'd like to get that group together next week to raise any questions we have as it relates to the contract, any question we have as it relates to the financials, so that we can move this forward and, and say my hope is
TEXT> continue to work with the Abbey Group going into next year. There will be other questions that we need to address from a school district point of view, to get better engagement from our students, to get better, use of the food programs that we have so we can change our financial programs that way, that doesn't really have anything to do with the Abbey Group. That really has to do with us. So this one here is can we get a group together to specifically speak to the renewal for the Abbey Group? And if I can get that, I'd like to set up that meeting early next week so we can continue to move this forward.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to volunteer, Jason, since he's not here. So that.

[10876-186] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Assistant Superintendent | 2020-06-03
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Wondering, Richard, how much waste is there in the 1000 lunches and breakfasts that are being done per day? Do you know, do you have a handle on that?
TEXT> There's really no waste  on our side. What happens most of the time is they're putting out a certain number of meals with the busses, and then throughout the time that the busses are out there, the bus drivers will call and say that they need additional meals.  If all of the meals that we provide to them are not used, they come back to Stephens and they're repurposed for the most part. Any of the fruit, the chips, the other things that are in there are repurposed going forward. But they've been very careful not to put too many meals on the busses for exactly that reason. Now, the issue as it relates to once it gets to the family, gets to the home, gets to the kids. Are they being eaten? We don't know that, but I'd be surprised if people would continue to come back for meals if they're not eating the ones from the previous day.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: No, I that's beyond our concern, but we're hoping that that the meals are getting to the kids. But I was more concerned that the lunches that were being prepared

[10876-187] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2020-06-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: once it gets to the family, gets to the home, gets to the kids. Are they being eaten? We don't know that, but I'd be surprised if people would continue to come back for meals if they're not eating the ones from the previous day.
TEXT> No, I that's beyond our concern, but we're hoping that that the meals are getting to the kids. But I  was more concerned that the lunches that were being prepared and the breakfast that were being prepared are being utilized and given out, you know, and we're not wasting a lot.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Yes. I asked that question, several times in talking with Deb, who handles this from Abby group. And again, their their philosophy is that we will make fewer and be

[10876-203] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Assistant Superintendent | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. So we have contract with the Abbey Group lunch program outsource new vendor. Are those covered Richard or we transition to lunch at the high school now.
TEXT> I'm sorry. Frank, can you can you can you can you ask that question again? So did. We cover item A completely lunch program outsource new vendor. Yes. Okay. So we're item the item B as I say really comes down to what can we do inside of our buildings to change and make it so the kids are either there or staying there? Or how can we go about getting different programs, different flow of food through the building so that they're being better utilized? We have a few ideas that have come in from the Abbey Group side. We have a few ideas that have come in from the leaders within our buildings. We need to get those implemented for next year so that it's easier for kids to partake in it. And then the kids aren't having to decide, geez, do I go over here and do this? Or do I go over and have breakfast?  We want them to be able to get breakfast and have a good meal, and also participate in an extracurricular activity or something going on before school. And those conversations just need to continue on with the building leaders. So we'll be hearing more about that.  We will. And again, as we're able to engage our principles in that, in that conversation.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. All right. Item C teacher nominations.

[10876-223] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as Donna [243], [354], [396 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> Sorry I didn't have that other info. They just said the non chronic case easily treatable and willing willingly done so by parents. The chronic cases cases are not really being addressed by parents. They're saying and the kids are coming back the next day.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah.

[10876-256] Tyler | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: not sure where we'll be with regular meetings if we have to, close them to the community members so we can spread out through the whole room. God only knows where we'll be. So. So other topics for for tonight that any burning issues? Tyler?
TEXT> Well, I just chime in. So I just had an email from Miss Berry. And I just wanted to put this out to the public  that, on June 10th at 6 p.m. on the Facebook page will be the last night for the seniors. And, and any students didn't get a scholarship or awards with the electronic invite. On on June 10th, but everybody will be able to see it on the Facebook page starting at 6 p.m. on June 10th. I just wanted to put that out to everybody. That last night will happen at June 10th at 6 p.m. via the Facebook page. And students who who will be getting awards or scholarships to invite via the emails that day. So students should be checking their emails.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I have to assume that there'll be specifics of what that's going to look like, because that's generally a fairly full house at Stevens High School to classmates. So

[10876-328] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as Mike on teacher nominations and su | 2020-06-03
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah, I'm fine with that. I just want the data. I just want to know where we're at. I don't need to know the plan for the future. Anything like that. I just want to know where we're at now.
TEXT> Yeah. So the. I did talk to Principal Barry about this in  there. And of course, we're taking any anyone who is on the fence, we have an individual plan for  and we're going to be very sensitive that so that kids it was not a typical spring  in the rule of thumb is that we we went back to where people were before the spring. And anyone who was having substantial difficulty in passing, you know, because of since, since Covid, they're doing everything and giving them extended time and things like that. So even when we get you that, you probably don't want that data much more before, you know, a week before we meet anyway, because it could have changed. Hopefully most of those kids will have been given extensions and leniency by our teachers who were absolutely wonderful at that. And and it'll be wrapped up. So we should have a we could have that to you a week, maybe ten days before we meet.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So that's what I was thinking because there are kids are going to receive interventions. If we get the the initial list, that's going to look a lot different than

[10942-19] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: We did it. And we counted you present. No, not roll call. Because we're all here, Carolyn. Except for you. All right. Thank you. All right. Transitioning to general business. Superintendent report.
TEXT> So? So, I go out to will present. The opening. Of school report. And. And also. Kind of there's a lot of. Clarification that that we hope  is in there. And also we'll show you and direct you to where you can find all of this information on the web. Two other things to clarify. I also want to thank all of the the folks at home. We we had many, many letters expressing opinions about the seriousness of the impact for students in discussing which model to reopen school and  a lot of a lot of and we couldn't answer all of those. We got so many in the past few days, and we tried to make our presentation and include points of FAQs and to address all those, but we will get back and address each and every one of those. But there has been, I think, a 20 or 30 at least over the past couple of days,  long, long ones, you know, and I will get back to each and every one. But we had to get the presentation and the information is changing, as you know. So all right.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I also just want to take a minute and I'm sure we'll talk about that with further discussion. And I know that there was just to clarify for Sunday's meeting.

[10942-21] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: have the it was tough to do that, frankly. We weren't we weren't on TV. We didn't have any other supports. It's much easier to do it now. So the biggest thing that I want to speak about with the with the phasing of this.
TEXT> Okay. And how serious?  Lead the administration and the advisory committee in the board, in all the community members are  taking this. Is that no one. Okay. We everyone wishes that it was last year. Okay. That Covid never happened, that we would open, that we would go back full, that we would just resume. There's not an American. There's not a citizen of the world who doesn't want that after this, the year. But what we have put forward in what you're going to see soon is a hybrid model similar to many other districts,  but  a phased model. Okay. Knowing that right now we are in phase one. It was a shutdown when March came. I was just rereading my the March 3rd letter, the kind of that that was coming. We had one in the office and we knew, no one was prepared across the state as completely as they wanted to be. Knowing that you wouldn't have the kids back. So, that was another thing that will will address. But we we have definite times in this plan. And the plan is to get back upon review when we look at all the data as soon as possible to full. And I don't want you to think that that's not the goal.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we also have more than one option, which we'll show you in. Some people said that that, you know, can I have a remote option and we'll go through

[10942-28] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: I understand it, but why did he have to. That's all I want to know.
TEXT> It's a great point. It's it's because it has been changing that rapidly week to week every other week. He's he's he just did one last Friday as well. So if you're looking as folders  last Friday says sound recordings. It's I don't want to say it's misleading, but it's hard to follow. It's hard to it's so for example, we're going to get to this later. The guide for amateur athletics is posted already in. Kids are practicing. You see them around  town, so they are practicing in youth leagues and the like. That hasn't been banned from the state or anything like that. It's suggested to use, you know, safe practices and things like that. But at the very same time, he also just posted no contact spools sports at all. I recommended during the pandemic. No two weeks in a row. You did that on the 20th and he just did it on last Friday. So what's.
NEXT> Jason Benware: The.

[10942-32] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: to be presented to the nurse before a child can come back to school. If a parent refuses that, then it's an automatic ten days of not coming to school. So that's what he's saying. So anytime you see excluding test, that's what that means.
TEXT> So what he's saying is if if somebody is, you know, you're feeling chilly, you're having any body aches. These are all the things that he's telling us. Excluding tests, new runny nose and nasals, congestion, he said even minor, excluding test.  Person with diarrhea, you know, a history of migraines, headaches, who reported headache yesterday and all symptoms  have resolved minor so they would  not need to be excluded. So so it gives these definite guidelines of what we need to do in schools in order to exclude kids and then to, when to bring them back. I mean, it changes the  last week, but the we prior to one of the things that he did say was he had said, if you have a child that you that comes to the office and you need to and they say they have a temperature and you have to exclude them, you have to call every school and every one that lives, every child that lives in that household needs to go home until a test comes back. And so this past week, he took away that the siblings in the household and said, just the child needs to be excluded. Unless the child comes back and they have  Covid, then all the kids would need to be removed from the school. So as you can see, it's changing so quickly.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And somewhat of a procedural question, I suppose. Should we be asking questions? Will we go along? Or should I write a litany of things down and just read it

[10942-40] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: them in a holding area which we have already established in the schools until they come, but we don't want them to enter the school at all possible, obviously, or the vehicle or the or the bus. So that's, that's kind of what we're trying.
TEXT> To do. And, and you'll see as we, as we move a move forward, one of the things that we will be that parents do have access to is going to be a self document that they're supposed to check at home, which will be kind of the same thing that we do. So, you know, to  have them check their child's temperature to see if their child has any of those symptoms, and if their child does, then the child should not be coming to school. And then when the kid if they so they the child passes all those and then they come to say the bus stop, then they're checked again by someone before they're allowed to board on the bus.
NEXT> Jeff Small: Can I just remind board members, if you do ask a question, if you could just unmute your mic this way callers because we have over 30 callers so they

[10942-45] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: All right so the next slide how long do they stay out for. Okay a lot of questions. Again all of this on on the state website.
TEXT> So again so say they're talking about the ten days. So if a child does not get get tested it's the automatic ten days. So they have to have at least ten days have passed since the first of them has appeared. And at least 24 hours since the last fever. Usually our schools have a 24 hour fever free anyway, so they have to have both of those and symptoms have improved. So there's the three things that they have to make sure they follow before a student can come back to school. And then this, this, the nurse would check in with those kids when they do arrive. And then if a person refuses testing, it's the same as if it's confirmed. So it goes up, back up to the ten days. So if they if a parent says, I don't know how  to test my child, then it goes automatically to the ten days that they have.  And again, so basically what they're saying it's, it's ten days unless you've traveled outside  of New England and that becomes 14 days.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: All right. So and this is the form that.

[10942-47] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: All right. So and this is the form that.
TEXT> This this is the form that I was talking about. So this one right here would be for the elementary parents. So they would they would look here so they would look for these symptoms. And then there's the two questions that they would ask. And if you said yes to any of these, then your child should not be coming to school. And these are kind of the same things we'll look for when the child comes to us.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yes. Rebecca.

[10942-51] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: have kids that have allergies and issues recurrently or seasonally, that if the symptoms are the same and that if they're treatable with antihistamines, then that's a consideration that's taken in place, which I think is a concern to a lot of people whose kids.
TEXT> And most most of the students that we know with allergies or inhalers or all that we have registered anyway. And I can't stress this enough. None of  all parents, none of us like doing this. No one wants. We want your kids back. We want it to be back the way it was. But this is just like what happens when you went to a kind of a scientific place at work or a hospital, and that's all the schools in the country are doing this right now. So it's it's it's, it's a it's very different. This year is going to be different no matter what.  So,
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And I know one of the things that, that we're concerned about, and we brought it up at the, at the last meeting, and it's been, you know, that it

[10942-54] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: How. How do we as educators and we've we've said this many times to each other. How do we as educators know exactly who's coming back when? How do you snap judgment, make a case? And this was a recurring question from parents in email.
TEXT> Right. And so one of the things they're saying is it depends upon what your classroom looks like. So if you see here it varies. So how long would a child and who gets sent home if a child has been, you know, has tested positive for Covid, you know, and they have to be quarantined, who would it be? And they're saying, well, it depends. It depends upon if you what how far apart the kids are, the contact they're having to be other  you know, so they're saying all the groups who  have their, you know, have one assigned seat that they're always sitting at, they're they're just maybe 2 or 3 individuals around them that have to be foreign mind, not the whole classroom. But then they're saying, but the if you're having even the older kids or the younger kids that are intermingling with each other, that may be a whole class situation where they're all going to have to be quarantined. But one of the things that that they said is if we have a child that has a case, we automatically have to call the DDHS, and they will work with us to determine who should be quarantined and who shouldn't be.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So it's not solely on the school to make that determination. As soon as we have a positive case, we call them and they help us make that judgment call.

[10942-72] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: a peer page with our PD on a regular basis, so that we bolster and we do Google Classroom in 5 or 6 other applications really well in often. So there will be more concentration of that and more of that to share with parents.
TEXT> One of the things that we know if when we had to close down, we really had no prep time. It was Sunday. You guys are closed now. And so we had a little bit of time to try to get things together, to get programs and to do all this stuff. Now that we've had some time to kind of think about what what it would look like, it's going to be, it's going to be different than it was, you know, because I know a lot of people say, well, my child did not do well with totally remote learning. We're looking we know that, that a lot of our kids did not do well with that. So we are looking at other ways that we can work with kids that on those days, on those remote days that they're not sitting in front of a computer doing the computer work. So they may have,  you know, a Monday class and the teacher will go over activities and things for them to do.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And then Tuesday they'll be working on those activities. So it doesn't necessarily mean that they would be in front of the computer doing this. And we we have we

[10942-73] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: with kids that on those days, on those remote days that they're not sitting in front of a computer doing the computer work. So they may have, you know, a Monday class and the teacher will go over activities and things for them to do.
TEXT> And then Tuesday they'll be working on those activities. So it doesn't necessarily mean that they would be in front of the computer doing this. And we we have we purchased programs and we plan on doing training with parents. And I know I'm going ahead a few slides, but we plan on doing parent training with parents. We have our kids now in our classrooms that we can train them on the programs, because basically with our lower level kids, we just said, here's a program, try to figure out how to do it. You know, the parents want to show how to do it, and the kids didn't know how to do it. Now we have that ability to train everyone on how to use programs.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just wanted to pause for one second and let Jeff know that there's a bunch of messages coming in that people are having a challenging time hearing the audio

[10942-125] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the reason we varied the days to go Monday and Tuesday. Friday is so that we would see the student so that the student wouldn't go without interventions. The student wouldn't go without support in that they would that that was the rationale. So yes.
TEXT> So some questions have been raised about that. And they're pretty good ones people have asked from an instructional standpoint it might make more sense. But by doing it that way, you're only having one group of kids who get a clean room. If you go with the kids going Monday, Thursday, those kids get a clean room. All the Tuesday, Friday, kids never get a clean room. Yeah.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we're cleaning the rooms every.

[10942-134] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: part that I talked about, that survey that's going out tomorrow is critical, right. So we need to know who from which household across town that we link. The families. And I have other slides to show this alpha so that I'll just slip ahead.
TEXT> And it's not necessarily just so for instance, if, if, if I was married in my last name was different from my new husband and I both had kids and we had different last names and different ways of alphabet, this household. So all the kids in that household would go on the same day. And so we're trying to  look at, you know, trying to have the older kids home with the younger kids. So if parents  need to work, they have their older sibling home. So that way they don't have the older one home on a Monday and the younger one home on a Tuesday  with no, you know, no childcare like that. So we're trying to make those arrangements as well, as well as looking at the area and the pickup area and,  and bussing and.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So, so question number three, which would end the questions that I had in that one was I saw that it was mentioned the full remote option included. And those

[10942-135] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: one home on a Monday and the younger one home on a Tuesday with no, you know, no childcare like that. So we're trying to make those arrangements as well, as well as looking at the area and the pickup area and, and bussing and.
TEXT> So, so question number three, which would end the questions that I had  in that one was  I saw that it was mentioned the full remote option included. And those types of things. Will there be  live  will there be live content? It was the question. And  as the lack sits with with teachers putting it in, would would we then not risk losing our adequacy aid for those kids.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yes. So so you you wouldn't lose adequacy.

[10942-139] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I asked you had.
TEXT> Because if the kids home school were losing eggs.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Yeah, right. It's not considered homeschool for for this time period and normal. In the past it has been. But as of right now, they're not considering it any type

[10942-144] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: yet. We will have that over the next week, and we will be building those, those cohorts to see what exactly what we can do. And we will get to that to as a precursor for, you know, with the teaching assignments and everything else.
TEXT> And we'll be out when we send the survey out. We're going to send a survey out. And we're asking that and you'll see a little later on. But we're asking that everybody respond to the survey by Sunday. And then Monday we're going to look at the survey and we're going to divvy it up to the schools. So that way the schools can take a look at which child, which parent responded, and then they can reach out to the the families that have not. So that way we have we know 100% pending. We have everybody's phone numbers correctly in our system  of what our kids are going to be doing. So we're hoping by Wednesday  know exactly what everybody's doing, if not sooner.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Have a quick question about the all day masks and.

[10942-166] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: But state Department of Health.
TEXT> Well, either way, my point is, is that if we're going to require masks, full day  on all kids with mask breaks at six feet, I guess I'm I'm curious what the difference between three feet of distance and six feet of distance. And if we can do three feet of distance. Well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Six feet is what the only change for three feet that ever crept in was for transportation from the New Hampshire Department of Education. CDC is is still a solid

[10942-170] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: That we would risk that.
TEXT> And if we go back a few slides and we talk about when would we have to quarantine our kids, the the closer we have them together, the more kids we'd have to quarantine. So if we have if we're six feet apart in there, you know, we may just have, you know, it may just be Jeff that has to go and be quarantined. And so the whole entire classroom, including the teacher, because if the teachers quarantine, we have to think about the other kids as well. So we want to make sure we're trying to keep everybody safe.
NEXT> Unidentified: Wasn't it?

[10942-209] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Rebecca.
TEXT> I don't know, I just think we can get into this huge debate over mask versus no masks and and blah, blah, blah, blah, the same thing that the entire country has been doing for the last three,  four months. And I think it's a waste of our time to try and debate that, because you have a different opinion than I have. I have a different opinion than you have. It doesn't really matter. What we're here to do is figure out what is safe as a group for our students to return to school. So I think we just need to focus on that. I appreciate you saying you don't feel comfortable with having lesser standards than what the community has.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I don't, and from the survey and the conversations I've had with my staff and all of the people we employ to make all this happen. I know they don't.

[10942-217] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: nurses association, with everything to see what is what's doable. Okay. But that was our rationale for that. Mass breaks our big thing where I wanted to highlight the mass breaks because it's out there and it's it's we just want it to be supervised.
TEXT> We want to have that that control over that, particularly at the early grades with the kids, what they expect. The younger the kids, the easier, frankly, they have them, you know, doing all kinds of things. But we we know what that's like, particularly when you open up to have it as tight as possible and then relax it because it's tough to get anything back. Ask any first year, second year teacher if they don't take control at the beginning of the year, it's tough to regain that. So that that was our rationale. With that proven barrier cloth staff, we bought everything. We bought a full range. This is was a question for many of our bus drivers as well as to what we have. Okay. And we'll get to that as well in other people who are in close contact with students. So we have a range from a cloth mask, paper masks for the public,  cloth masks for every student, every staff member and multiple ones. We're going to launder those. We're going to assist with those  are we also have face shields, a thousand of those that we were donated from Whalen that you'll see in a upcoming slide.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And again, thank you. Thank you for for those again, more resources that we can use in other ways by getting those and the like. Okay. So these are this

[10942-226] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: But.
TEXT> These kids ride with those kids in the bus, so everyone's on the bus.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And it's middle and high middles ahead. So it's so it doesn't matter the size when we're talking about the distance.

[10942-239] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: For the amount of kids we again, we don't know. These are unknowns. We don't know. We got a survey. We got to get it typed, we get a pair it off. And we're very hopeful. But we have to get on it ASAP.
TEXT> And and one of the things too that, you know, we're looking at busses. I don't know if anybody's ever driven behind a school bus. The kids aren't sitting nicely in their seat.  You know, they're up jumping around doing things they're not supposed to be doing, you know? So we really have to almost train the kids that you have to sit in your seat, you know, in the same thing with siblings. A lot of siblings don't get along. And now we're going to, you know, when they're on the bus, they don't want to sit with their brother or sister, you know, and now they're going to have to sit with their brother and sister in these types of cases, because we need to make sure that we can get everybody that we can. So, you know, we'll try to accommodate as best we can.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So these and now we're talking about space in the room. So the this is what bluff looks like. We have it 12. What. You'll notice that you can see

[10942-241] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of students. But some staff also, if we are lopsided, like we got caught over the some of the bluff sizes were really low, some of the maple sizes were high. We had some classrooms with about ten of them, and then we had 24.
TEXT> So if that's the case, we're going to make cohorts either if they're virtual okay or if we have to transfer a teacher to another building or things like that, or potentially if it works in the bus routes and it makes sense,  suspend the coverage of of who goes to what school so that we have class cohort sizes that are manageable and safe for everyone so that it's the equity there, you know. So the kids well there in initially hopefully only initially for a couple of days a week as we expand and then we look at it, maybe we get that Wednesday back. Maybe we get this, you know, as we open up, it will it will be even and it will be, it will be best for them to be in groups of close, close to about eight. And then we can use those teachers as well by assignment for, for a virtual folks. And again, we don't know exactly what that looks like yet, but we will soon.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And Jason, to.

[10942-243] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: And Jason, to.
TEXT> To go back to one of your questions. So if you look here at, at the classroom, as, you know, as a former teacher myself, so if I'm in the classroom and and say I'm at my desk, right, I could say to the kids, okay, we're going to take a mask break. You can remove your mask, you know, bring your mouse down. And they could all they're all socially distanced so they can have their masks down. Now, if I'm in front of the classroom and I'm walking around teaching my kids, you know, or doing work with them, then I would ask them to put their mask on for for the safety of all of us, you know, so those types of things, that's why we're saying, you know, the kids should have about having mask as well.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So when we talk about class space and class size, have you looked at I mean, because so Stephens High School, we traditionally have histories in this room. Science is

[10942-246] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Absolutely.
TEXT> So and we're also looking at one thing that's been really tough is as you could get and I don't want we have to let me just caveat we have to plan for this stuff. It's bizarre, but we have to. So we are going to do the temperatures. I'm thinking of Stevens now. It's our most challenging campus. Right. So if you if you have if we've taken temperatures for all the riders and then they're coming up to the front loop, which is the traditional hangout, anyone who's driven by Broad Street in the morning, those kids, they like to hang in the glass area, the foyer there. That's not going to happen. That's the express line drop from the bus. And in everyone else, all the walkers are going to come through what will look like. As Principal. Barry described. It to us the other. Day. A movie theater with concert lines roped off. You're coming in. You're you're scanned. You're in as fast as possible. Again. We didn't ask for this. Hopefully you're skinned. You're fine. You go. You are received by your homeroom teacher. If not, you are going immediately into a cordoned off area of the gym. We have to. We're not going to have gym.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We're not going to have gym. We're going to use gym. We're going to use the. Every room that we have is functionally to your point, as we need to

[10942-256] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Again. We're not overreacting. I'm just telling you what what we're looking at because we would rather have options for kids to be healthy. And whether that's playing five on five soccer, five on five field hockey, five, whatever it is, or skills and drills.
TEXT> And then what? Also, I don't believe it's voted on yet. I think all they voted on was the pushing the start date of sports to the 8th of September. But what's before committee now is to have open tournaments so that everyone is in the tournament. And whatever you do locally is whatever you do locally, and then the tournament starts type of thing because it varies so different amongst amongst communities. I think they're working out those, those details. They've also talked about swapping seasons the fall season for the spring season. I don't know that it will happen, but they're talking about it because the fall is so heavily contact sports with soccer, boys and girls soccer, football  and field hockey being close contact, expelling sports versus  softball and baseball, a little bit of contact, not as much  spring events in the like. I don't know where that's going. We're keeping it posted. What I do know in that I'm recommending in I'm not comfortable with it again,  nor are my bus drivers and is risking our transportation for sports, extracurriculars and things like that that we might need just to get our kids to school. Like I said, we have seven drivers or nine drivers hopefully, but if that goes down, if the fleet goes down, kids don't get to school and not it's a choice to play a sport.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[10942-267] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Yeah. And I'm not even near mine so. All right. So so the so but but what we, what, what a lot of the students said and particularly in what was neat about this group, was you had long term athletes who were still,  way more articulate than I was at 17 speaking, speaking about this is my life. I love it, but it's still going to be a tough decision for me. Has to be your choice type of thing.  And then we also had people coming up with creative ideas for drama for, for for music, you know, smaller plays, venues, parades that could be observed by folks videotaping, volleyball, for example, no spectators in because it's closed and things like that. And again, we were we were talking about a range of options depending on and all of this to over the six weeks that we met. If it spikes, what's the range going to be? We knew we would have to make decisions on the fly. So, but those are some of the things they had in really good ideas. We don't want to take anything away at all. We don't, but we want to. We need to make sure that it's safe for students in. The hardest thing for us so far has been particularly what we all expect is hard work, dedication of the student athlete, the performer, and then there's some type of event that everyone goes and sees.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And it's the best thing about those things. Those of us who participate in, it's wonderful. Okay, you're competing against your neighbors this, that. No one wants that to go

[10942-270] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> So some feedback from people who have sent emails  and my own thoughts on this. Sports are something and extracurriculars are things that kids choose to do. And there are things that parents choose to allow their children to do.  So if parents choose to allow the children to play a sport with the understanding of the risk, those that don't want that risk simply won't allow their parents or their kids to play the sport. Number one. Number two, we used to have a thing in the area called the Connecticut Valley League, and it was an air it was it was competing with schools all across the Connecticut River, up and down from Lebanon, down to Bellows Falls.  And, this may be one of those times when that's something that we should look at because our area from here to Bellows Falls and pretty much up to Lebanon and across into, into,  you know, the Norwich area or whatever is relatively unaffected as we speak right now. It's still like a definition of what a contact sport is. Are you going to get to that?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah.

[10942-272] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah.
TEXT> Well yeah. His his definition is this statement no physical contact. So I've heard it described as this okay. No physical contact. If you touch bodies you're out okay. This is what we've struggled with as administrators form athletes and coaches as well as the ads have. You're really talking about mouthguard. Sports is like I can't think of a better way we anticipate contact and you protect that. Generally speaking, that's the colloquial language people are using to describe. That. Is is it defined? No. We wish I wish I wasn't in a public meeting right now saying, I don't really have a great definition for you as you have a very sensible question, but but that's where we are. We there has been no direct guidance from the Naia or canceling, flip flopping these things. And it doesn't hold up to what's happening in amateur sports. Right. So a kid right now can play youth sports, they can pay to do something and do that. And the families with the means can have that advantage that other kids don't. And it drives me crazy.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Just sort of golf every by that definition, every sport is a contact sport. In baseball you're going to contact somebody track and field. You're going to contact somebody. If

[10942-286] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: The.
TEXT> Specialists in. So the kids are passing fewer times with the schedules and then the next set of slides. I have some of the schedules  and I have, you know, households to show how that same cohort on the same day and the like, we've ordered, I believe, 200 or 300 of the temperatures  to have 10 or 20 of them at each school. And with all the coaches and all those other things that you have to, you know, used to be in my day, if you relate to you were running, you were doing all these other things, and now you better be there for temperature check, you know, so it's it's.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's.

[10942-297] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: Yeah. Okay. The child has to come back to like, a kid table to work with a teacher. They have these devices. They can work with the future.
TEXT> So there's nothing that's going to be going on the children's desks to to give them an opportunity to not wear their masks during the day. If I understand.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We we have I don't know, you probably close to that dawn. I know we got of those new c c ones. I know not for a whole set, not

[10942-302] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> One of the things that we were really lucky about is, is having  having the availability to have the, for us because we did purchase some, some of them that we purchased from, from a store, and it was a, the plexiglass on the bottom, it had a little plexiglass stand. It almost looks like they cut in it, and they just stuck the plexiglass in it. And, what really worked out well for us is this week we're doing kindergarten screening.  And so the Screen act, the people that were doing the screening were sitting there, and they're doing the testing,  and all of a sudden the kid pushes it over and it is very flimsy.  And so we ended up going out and taking the ones that we purchased and bringing the ones that we've made in there for them. And the kids can't push them over and they're like, wow, this is so much better. So the ones that we purchased, we're looking at putting something around. Now we'll possibly go into the older kids where we are not going to fall over on the teacher and the teacher. So we've been very fortunate, you know, testing things out this week to see what works and what doesn't work.
NEXT> Unidentified: I have 15 in my car right now in the. Show.

[10942-311] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: Leaving for.
TEXT> The day or they leave. But no matter what it's it's elbow to elbow. And no matter what, if you've been in the middle school or you've been in, this is what Stevens High looks like.  You know, all all last year and the opening foyer and stuff like that. It's what a school looks like. Okay. We hope to return to that. That's that's just, I think an exemplar of what we're trying to avoid right away and then get back to normal as soon as the numbers as soon as the safety and God willing that there's a vaccine as soon as possible as well. Again, this is this is  also on that same thing. There was another venue of parents coming up dropping. It's a it's a really emotional scene and it's going to be us soon. And  I know parents are struggling with I know what it's like to drop your, your, your kid off and trust others, you know, to to take care of your child. So that's pretty much what our foyer will look like. Or someone will be there for the temperature.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The warm greeting, first of all, like there's always been, that starts with the bus drivers. To which I wish if you ever want to ride. They're amazing. You know

[10942-315] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: documents and things like that, and it changes within a couple of days. So you can just we can add on to this, revise this. And it's always a centering document to to go back and forth from, if you don't mind speaking about this.
TEXT> Two of the things that we were looking at doing is, educating our parents and guardians guardians as well, because one of the things we did when remote learning ended, we asked parents and community members and students and everyone, what was your what was your thoughts on what we just went through in case we had to do something again? So that way we knew what we could change or how we could fix it. And so through that, we found that we needed to educate a little bit more, you know, to teach them because, you know, they didn't know the programs. They were kind of thrown into the programs like the children were. So one of the things that we're looking at doing is we're looking at offering some types of some types of trainings for, for parents, guardians. And  it could be online, it could be face to face, depending upon the size of the class. It could be a parent or guardian in a child. But so we're doing like a Chromebook one on one, which is just navigating, you know, because, you know, one of the calls that I think I answered was, how do I turn the dime thing on, you know, so because sometimes they have, you know,  grandparents watching them and they're like, I don't have a Chromebook, I don't have anything.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So so we would help with things, things such as that we're looking at using the program seesaw for pre-K to two years old, which is the, the format that

[10942-316] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: because, you know, one of the calls that I think I answered was, how do I turn the dime thing on, you know, so because sometimes they have, you know, grandparents watching them and they're like, I don't have a Chromebook, I don't have anything.
TEXT> So so we would help with things, things such as that we're looking at using the program seesaw for pre-K to two years old, which is the, the format that we're going to be using, which Google Classroom would be the 3 to 12, which is currently what they've been doing. One of the things we're also looking at with Google Classroom and Seesaw was having it more, as I said Sunday, having it. So that way everybody kind of has the same format. So when somebody goes in there. One child. It's the same as the other. So they're not trying to navigate and figure, okay,  I went through this one. How do I do all this now. And this one looks totally different. So we're trying to make it so that way they're more they're similar in that. And then remote learning set strategy. So building a workspace what does a workspace look like for your child. You know what are some resources. How do you get the balance between being a parent and working with your child. You know. And when do you say, okay,  enough's enough I can't do this, you know, because we don't want it to be a fight.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: The last thing we want a parent to do is fight with their child about work, about schoolwork, because we know that we're the educators. And that's what our job

[10942-317] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: know what are some resources. How do you get the balance between being a parent and working with your child. You know. And when do you say, okay, enough's enough I can't do this, you know, because we don't want it to be a fight.
TEXT> The last thing we want a parent to do is fight with their child about work, about schoolwork, because we know that we're the educators. And that's what our job is, is to educate your children and the children in our district. It's not the parents job to do that part. That's ours. So we want to work together with how do we how do we balance that out, social emotional well-being for both students and parents? Because we do know it is very hard to have your child home with you all day. You know, even myself,  you know, growing up as an educator, having to educate my own child was very complicated. There were times when I just, I had to walk away and I said to my husband, you need to deal with him because you're going to have one less child, you know, and I went to school in education, you know, because it just doesn't work because it's different, you know?
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And that's why a lot of times when parents come in. They'll say, you know, oh, he's so good at school. And they're like, really my kid. You know, it's

[10942-318] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: had to walk away and I said to my husband, you need to deal with him because you're going to have one less child, you know, and I went to school in education, you know, because it just doesn't work because it's different, you know?
TEXT> And that's why a lot of times when parents come in. They'll say,  you know, oh, he's so good at school. And they're like, really my kid. You know, it's it's different. It's a different approach. So we know that it's very stressful for both the child and the parent. So doing some social and emotional well-being and supports and helping out with that, as well as talking about some of our technology tools and showing parents how to use them and working through them. So some of the things like Flipgrid  and Brain Pop and reading A to Z, these just are naming a few of the the programs that we'll go through with parents and students and how to do that. And the great thing about our hybrid is we're going to be able to walk the kids through how to use these programs. For the most part, a lot of them already know how to use them, but we can definitely say, okay, so tomorrow you're going to be doing this assignment on Brain Fog. We could bring a kid into that program having started already. So then the next day they're already familiar with what they were doing. So that's the that's the good thing about the hybrids program.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And that's what we're going to be offering for parents. So when we look at the staff, we're going to be we're going to be obviously talking about the district

[10942-319] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: you're going to be doing this assignment on Brain Fog. We could bring a kid into that program having started already. So then the next day they're already familiar with what they were doing. So that's the that's the good thing about the hybrids program.
TEXT> And that's what we're going to be offering for parents. So when we look  at the staff, we're going to be we're going to be obviously talking about the district policies and procedures that we have in place and some of our school policies and procedures. We're going to be looking at the curriculum expectations. So again, what is the Google Classroom need to look like? What does seesaw look  need to look like. How do we do that.  Looking at the competencies and standards and saying, what is it that our kids miss that we can kind of pull in to this year? And what is some of the things that we know we're going to be teaching, you know, in a in a month so we can hold off and teach something else right now. So we're going to be looking at those standards and grading. How are we grading. You know, because that was one of the big things that the parents were saying. It's you know, you're grading. How do we know that? Who's doing the work at home? You know, we hope that it's the student, but we know that the parents are helping as well.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So we need to look at that in the grading and make sure that we're we're being fair to all students with that, looking at our core programs, our online

[10942-320] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: was one of the big things that the parents were saying. It's you know, you're grading. How do we know that? Who's doing the work at home? You know, we hope that it's the student, but we know that the parents are helping as well.
TEXT> So we need to look at that in the grading and make sure that we're we're being fair to all students with that, looking at our core programs, our online programs, you know, familiarizing staff with them and making sure  and as well as doing some social emotional well-being with our staff, because we do know this is going to be very stressful for them as well. And so one of the things that we talked about is how do we get this out to parents? So we talked about doing some type of advertising or showing things on CCTV. We're going to be looking at doing an YouTube channel  that can that  can promote some of the things that we're doing in our district, then schedule drop in sessions. So we'll have a no sounds funny schedule dropping. So what it would be would be you'd scheduled time. So we may say, well, today we're going to be going over seesaw and we're going to have, you know, we can have for parents because we have social distancing or whatever. And then we could have, you know, you could schedule time to come in on that day because some people do much better sitting in front of someone then they do.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: If we send them a video and say, watch this video and make what that video does, because number one. How do you mimic it when you're on your computer?

[10942-368] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: our schools, then we have to target the parents that have high risk professions. If you're getting a kid with a temperature when they get to the door, I mean, that's not it's not really that's not really helping us any. Did the parents travel?
TEXT> Have you gone away on vacation? Have you been with anybody who's traveled? I mean, those things are the things that we need to be focusing on. Everything else is just catching it after it's already happened. As far as the masks, I'm not going to beat this to death because it's something that people feel really, really comfortable with. But all the mask data is based on adults and not children, and how children handle wearing masks and whether or not they're compliant with them and whether or not they actually contaminate themselves more. Wearing a mask without wearing a mask. And I know it's a comfort level that people have, and they've heard over and over that masks reduce transmission. And with adults, we know that for sure. That's something we know for sure. So I can get on board 100% with that. And I can also understand why people in the community, that's just an uptick that helps people get through the day. The other piece I think we're missing is that this was a super comprehensive presentation that didn't focus on how the past remote experience has affected our educational quality, how much our kids have lost, how we're going to make up for that, how starting 6 or 7 weeks when this phased approach with this remote, you know, with this phase approach, are we going to how are we going to recoup the losses that we've
NEXT> Heather Whitney: sustained there? You know, I think we've kind of like I said before, we're a little bit myopic. We're we're almost missing our primary mission, which is educating the children.

[10942-369] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: our kids have lost, how we're going to make up for that, how starting 6 or 7 weeks when this phased approach with this remote, you know, with this phase approach, are we going to how are we going to recoup the losses that we've
TEXT> sustained there? You know, I think we've kind of like I said before, we're a little bit myopic. We're we're almost missing our primary mission, which is educating the children. And my last point really is I probably have another point that I haven't thought of, but it's very observational. But something that's weighing heavy on my mind  is I work with a bunch of very affluent people, fluent people, and almost without exception, if their families or if their communities have decided to either have remote or semi remote or these hybrid models, they're sending their kids to private school. So they're they're literally going to pull their kids and they have the means and they're going to send them to private school, or they're going to hire a nanny or au pair or a tutor to be with their kids, giving them the educational opportunities that public school kids are not going to get. Again, I mean, in this whole movement for social justice and income equity and equity of outcome and opportunity, once again, I think we are potentially falling short and we're actually putting our highest risk kids, the most disadvantaged kids in one of the most disadvantaged communities in the state, once again at the bottom of the pile, with no way out for these families
NEXT> Heather Whitney: to elevate them. Education is the only way out for these folks, and we're just putting a boot on their neck. And not only that is, we're putting the boots

[10942-371] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: we're just putting a boot on their neck. And not only that is, we're putting the boots on the next to the parents to who are just struggling to put food on the table and keep their families together. And that's me off my box.
TEXT> Thank you. Well, I have a couple. Things I just wanted to. Put. Out because I. Just wanted to. Clarify and ask if if so, and I'll get to a few other things after. But so we have to we have to open school. So we have, as you know, as you were part of it from the very start we've been meeting, we've been talking about what we're going to do in all these other things,  and we have to open school. We, we, we know that our students have been out five and a half, six months,  and it terrifies us. So  to your point of if we should have come here focused on pre and post tests and things that we can't gather over the summer in benchmarks, I mean, that's that's just we can't do that. I know. So I wish I wish we could but that's just not even even when we do our baseline testing for entire years and cohorts and analysis and data review teams, which all of our teachers do faithfully every week, and they bussed hail to do it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we're so proud of them. So we couldn't do that during we were just trying to stay afloat and give the kids something and they'll be it. That's why

[10942-372] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I wish I wish we could but that's just not even even when we do our baseline testing for entire years and cohorts and analysis and data review teams, which all of our teachers do faithfully every week, and they bussed hail to do it.
TEXT> And we're so proud of them. So we couldn't do that during we were just trying to stay afloat and give the kids something and they'll be it. That's why we're trying to ramp up. We'll focus on the capacity that we're going to build what hasn't been said. It has to. I have to say this, and you all know that it's part of our strategic plan to retain and draw people in when we have had a turnover problem forever, our our teachers, our powers, our  our staff are the backbone of our operation. They are they have to be here or we have no product for that. We have nothing to come back to. I'm not being inflammatory. I'm not speaking for them. They are going to show up and they're going to get it done because that's how they are. We can't take risks for them. They are coming. They are the people who live in Vermont. They are the people who live in. A couple of them live in Massachusetts. They live in all over the place. They are traveling. They're coming back. They are your workforce. So in terms of the transient nature of our demographic and all of the things that we have to, we signed up. We love this community. There are so many other things to your point that that we have to equalize.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Right? And so we're Spencer said about education, American public education. It's the great equalizer. Sky's the limit. I want these students back. We want to see them. We want

[10942-375] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: environment we can so that we are going forward with with our with our, our model. So that's that's a big piece at the back of it. So and we still haven't even met with them yet. We have concerns and things like that. But
TEXT> One of the things the Department of Education has recommended that the first two weeks of school be almost a social, emotional time because our kids have lost a lot because of that. So they don't want us to test our kids when they first walk in the door. They want us to be able to build those relationships and, you know, let the kids know where they are for them and support them in any way that we can. So we want to, you know, we want to make sure we make those build those relationships right off the bat. The second thing is, I mean, as as a former teacher myself, what I can say to you is that, as you know, having 24 kids in my class, I tried as hard as I could to individualize and try to get it on a normal year, if I could, as a teacher, have a cohort of seven, ten kids, 12 kids, those kids are going to gain much more than if I had 24, because I can really individualize and look at what they've lost and work with them on that.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So I can be working about what's going on in the classroom, as well as picking up on anything that they can missed. Miss better with a smaller cohort than

[10942-376] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: if I could, as a teacher, have a cohort of seven, ten kids, 12 kids, those kids are going to gain much more than if I had 24, because I can really individualize and look at what they've lost and work with them on that.
TEXT> So I can be working about what's going on in the classroom, as well as picking up on anything that they can missed. Miss better with a smaller cohort than with a whole classroom. So I think even by educationally, I think it's a smart move because we're going to be able to to individualize our kids so much better.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But you're going to see about half the time that's my I mean, I'm just struggling with this and and I'm, I'm trying not I'm not trying to be critical.

[10942-378] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: struggling with this and and I'm, I'm trying not I'm not trying to be critical. I'm just really I'm struggling with if, if I, if I can, in my gut feel it's the best thing to do, then please convince I really want to be.
TEXT> You know, the goal is every teacher wants to be back. Eventually 100% with their kids every single day. So so what we're looking at is this is a stepping stone to get us to that point. So when we do get back to that point, the kids that are that have fallen behind,  we're hoping to have them right back. So that way it's like, not like last year never happened. So we we have those relationships built and we can start like  almost like the first day our kids didn't lose anything. We've we've gained all this and moved forward with our kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But back to the infection rate. If we can't be okay at zero, what are we going to be okay at? And what are we going to shut down for?

[10942-408] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Time, I want to give other people a chance, like. Right.
TEXT> So my my point is, you know, we're talking full open versus hybrid where for either way there's a remote learning option. Option. Yes. So when you look at the the numbers from your survey, you did just purely on parents and it was about a thousand parents that responded. About 450 were for the reopening. About 250 were for the hybrid is 300 were for remote. So that's about 30% of your parents that if we do a full reopen, 30% of those parents are going to keep their kids home.  So we're not talking about reopening with 1800 kids. We have still if these numbers are continue to be accurate, we have still 30% of our student population that won't be coming to school because they'll be doing remote learning. So. So numbers with people that are keeping their kids home for remote learning, that gives you more space to do the best we can with the social distancing, do the best we can to get kids to wear masks while they're up in about or all day if that's, you know, if that happens to be the directive. But we can't do anything more than the best we can do to keep these kids safe.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Whether it's.

[10942-411] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Full remote. Or hybrid.
TEXT> I think it would be really hard to pull that off. So if we right now, like Newport went, went out and said, all in, all out, let's hope it lands in the middle, lets you know, I think it's going to be hard to pull that off, I really do. We don't have the infrastructure. Right.  Like I said, they have half the kids, half. If I can, I can model that. We can go for it. We also don't know from that survey. That's why it's critical for those those watching that we get those numbers tight. Even though that was a nice respondents rate for surveys, it wasn't the full sample. So it could skew one way or the other. And we won't know that until we have the second round. But we didn't we didn't want to start  based on reactions and things like that. We didn't want to start sampling until  the second round of the survey, until we had these discussions publicly.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Okay, so. Let me turn on my. I want to begin by saying I understand this took. A ton of time. And I know there's a lot of work put

[10942-412] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And we won't know that until we have the second round. But we didn't we didn't want to start based on reactions and things like that. We didn't want to start sampling until the second round of the survey, until we had these discussions publicly.
TEXT> Okay, so. Let me turn on my. I want to begin by saying I understand this took. A ton of time. And I know there's a lot of work put into this, and I appreciate that. But I feel and I. Agree with Heather. I feel a lot of it missed. The mark to some degree. Where do I begin? Since. We've been talking. About this, I believe our risk is relatively low. Also  based. Upon looking at the numbers. And I touched on this on Sunday. I'm not going to rehash it too much, but I do believe that the survey was flawed. I don't think it was effective, and I don't think it asks the right questions. And it really didn't have to be that long. It should have simply asked  today, understanding what the risks are, would you send your kid to school or would you have them remote learn? Because if we had those numbers, we'd have a much better idea of what we're talking about. If we went for a remote option or a full open for the kids who wanted to come. We don't have that. But based upon the numbers Mike threw out, we had. 45% send them to school. We had  35%. Remote learning in the middle was the rest for the most part.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Now, since we knew that we did this weighted survey, which stuck a bunch of people in the middle, because the people who wanted to send their kids to school,

[10942-413] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: or a full open for the kids who wanted to come. We don't have that. But based upon the numbers Mike threw out, we had. 45% send them to school. We had 35%. Remote learning in the middle was the rest for the most part.
TEXT> Now, since we knew that we did this weighted survey, which stuck a bunch of people in the middle, because the people who wanted to send their kids to school, the next closest thing is the hybrid model, the people who don't want to send their kids to school and they want to have a remote learn the next closest thing to that, if they have to make a second choice, is the one in the middle. It's the hybrid model, right? Based on those numbers, I would expect, and I don't know because I don't have them, that we'd have some going from each direction to either side, and we'd probably have a roughly a 6040 split going to school, not going to school. Where am I going with this? This is where I'm going with this. We talked about bussing. You did a survey on bussing. Roughly 50% of the kids don't use bussing. According to your survey, roughly another 25% of those people surveyed said we use bussing, but we could use another method, which leaves you about 25% who use bussing. Okay, 60%. If we had 60% of kids going to school and then 25% of that 60%, which gives us about 15% of the population would actually use school busses out of 1800 people.
NEXT> Jason Benware: That works out to about 240 kids. I've had several respondents send me messages and say this right now. The plan is damaging to me, my family, as from an

[10942-414] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: use another method, which leaves you about 25% who use bussing. Okay, 60%. If we had 60% of kids going to school and then 25% of that 60%, which gives us about 15% of the population would actually use school busses out of 1800 people.
TEXT> That works out to about 240 kids. I've had several respondents send me messages and say this right now. The plan is damaging to me,  my family, as from an economic standpoint, it's very going to be very difficult for me to work and provide for my family with my kids at home three days a week, trying to figure out how to  get childcare and and get them educated in the manner that they should be educated. Those people would much more be willing to figure out a way to get those kids to and from school on their own, than they would be crippled  economically from this plan.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Are you saying our plan. Cripples the economic like? I get that it's impactful, but we are not the drivers or intentionally.

[10942-435] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (addressed as Frank [723]; 'the chair doe | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: progress one way or the other. So to me, it's it's not that they're their choice is really being ignored because it would be taken away one way or the other. Either we're going to move to full or we're going to move to remote.
TEXT> But again,  going with the survey that we both know, everybody knows. Yet most people, their preference as the word in the survey said, their preference is that their kids be back in school and the teachers, their preference is that the kids will be back in school. As Jason said. How did you phrase it? Because you phrased it. Well, would you would this be your first choice if you knew? What did you say?
NEXT> Jason Benware: I said. Given the the situation as it is today, understanding the risks that are involved with that, would you choose to send your kids to school full time or

[10942-446] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Oh I'm sorry, it's Rebecca.
TEXT> Yeah, I'm I'm just going to say something super salty. That's probably not going to make me a lot of friends, but I think that we need to remember that the sole purpose of school is to educate children. So  I feel terribly for parents who have to work, and I feel terribly for those of us who suffered during remote learning, and I feel terribly for the parents who are going to have to figure it out and all of that. And I totally get it. But our purpose is to educate kids. So the mean part of me thinks that it should be a parent's responsibility to figure out what they're going to do with their child. It's not the school's responsibility to figure it out. The hard part of me doesn't doesn't feel that way. The hard part of me worries about the parents and how they're going to manage economically as well. But I don't want to hear one person complaining about budget when it comes around. When we're talking about social emotional services and all of those other things that we provide. Because that is all I keep hearing about at budget time. I keep hearing parents should provide for their kids, and now I'm hearing the school should provide for the parents so that their kids can be in school so they can work.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So it's the whole thing is just like I said to someone else the other day, the irony is not lost on me in this whole situation.

[10942-452] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter by phone, Ward 1 (former Claremont School Board membe | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jeff Small: I can hear you.
TEXT> Okay. This is Patrick. Adrian, Ward one. I'm going to speak as a parent. So I'm going to bite my tongue on anything related to the. Question about the structural opening. But I do have a couple questions as a parent, and I think it does kind of concern the remote learning. First one is, with the Wednesday  Personalized learning day, I was very concerned when I heard on Sunday mentioned a teacher prep day. I understand you're going to be doing cleaning in the schools. I have a I am adamant, I feel adamantly that that day should not be for teacher prep, for teacher planning for anything other than  if you have all the kids at home and we have the digital technology. It needs to be a structured school day. Teachers, parents, we, especially the elementary level. I understand the high school and the middle school have come different scheduling structures. So, you know, I understand that you can kind of use that a little bit more flexibly. I don't want to see what happened last year. I understand the end of the year. We needed kind of a day for making up work, but it was pretty much and many times became very kind of too loosely structured. Not a lot of kids doing academics, that needs so, so it cannot be a teacher prep day.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: The teachers need to be focused on their students that day. And I think Frank also nailed something very important, I guess, about the remote side of it. Unfortunately, I

[10942-453] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter by phone, Ward 1 (former Claremont School Board membe | 2020-08-05
PREV> Patrick Adrian: the year. We needed kind of a day for making up work, but it was pretty much and many times became very kind of too loosely structured. Not a lot of kids doing academics, that needs so, so it cannot be a teacher prep day.
TEXT> The teachers need to be focused on their students  that day. And I think Frank also nailed something very important, I guess, about the remote side of it. Unfortunately, I can't remember what that was, but, yeah, I,  I don't know. Yeah, I kind of worry about the. Okay, I know what it was. Yeah. We need to find out how is it going to work? Because I guess, and I understand what Donna McGowan was saying. It's not going to work that way, you know, because to say that the teachers, oh, they're going to have 12 kids in the classroom, the reality is they have 24, 12 are in remote, 12 in the classroom. I'm sure you're going to find some teachers are going to bring that up that, you know, they are being divided. And we do need to kind of figure out how are we going to address the kids who are at remote. How is that going to work? Because I, you know, really don't want to have this kind of, just putting a bunch of work on them that doesn't really connect to what happens when they get back into the classroom.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And the last thing I just want to bring up, it's been talked about. There's needs to be some measurable data, for how we are going to determine phases, sitting

[10942-462] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (addressed as Frank [723]; 'the chair doe | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: experience he had with remote learning. And we've heard that that it was very, very stressful for people and a little humor that algebra two was a dark chapter in the recent past for my older son and I, and I can relate to that.
TEXT> He is terrified by remote learning or hydrogen feels that students should be back in school. The last is from  former board member Steve Ski,  and he starts with some concerns regarding the the survey, very similar to what we've discussed around the the weighting of the of the of the different categories of different options for people and the, the other part that that Steve is unique on is that he feels that, financially, as a taxpayer,  when we've got people who are not working in the schools, that, there should be people, not people not being paid if they're not actually working in the schools. I think I'm capturing that. And, strong workmen call for special meeting a vote in the event of a district choosing the options of a part time schedule. And that's something we would have to discuss.  And again, about discrepancies in the budgets as the proposed budget, proposed schedule and the one that we're using. So I think that his concerns are with the, the survey and then the finances of having less than everybody back in school. And again, he thinks that everyone should be back in school. Those of you, everyone else who wrote  I know, I read them all. I think everybody on the board did. And, and we really appreciate it. There were many people who do support. I've read  we've had several, letters from teachers and different people who support the hybrid.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: There are people who support the full remote. I'm guessing I received 30 or 40 emails. And thank you to those of you, those many of you who, appreciate us

[10942-466] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Hybrid like hybrid forever.
TEXT> Correct. So what I'm saying is that the hybrid model is going to transition either to full in time or full remote.  So. For me, I haven't there hasn't been a case made that it's safer. And I saw one comment from somebody who's watching the CCTV that they believed if one case came and we had half the school time, that would mean half the half the risk. And that's simply not the case. If we follow the CDC guidelines and if we're keeping kids in classrooms and moving teachers instead of kids, those kids would still be the same. Kids would still be in contact with that one child that brought the virus in. So you're not having or or or making a three quarter improvement in the risk of spreading to the rest of the school. It's really a nominal. It's it's  it's almost a  non it's almost a non-issue. It doesn't improve your safety. And so there hasn't been a case that this is safer a safer option because at any time the infection could occur if we go to full time. Also, there's been no case that transitioning this way is a better educational option.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Lastly, when I'm thinking about the teachers, I heard what Mr. Ward said. I had read his email as well. And to his point, I think the teachers are feeling

[10942-499] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (by phone; ASR 'Principal Bailey', 'Pat | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: So that there is actually. Go ahead.
TEXT> Hi. Thank you. Can you hear me? I just want to thank everybody for all the perspectives that you've given tonight. I've the problem. And what has kept most of us up for so many nights is that you're all right. There is no right. And there is no wrong. We can open and go back to 100%, but we cannot also meet the CDC guidelines. Those two are mutually exclusive. And that is the rub. So if we go back on September 3rd, 100%, there is no way in any of our buildings that we can maintain the distance. And follow what we have been told by the governor and by the CDC. That is where we are stuck. So if we are to do what we are told by the scientists and by everyone who has told us what we need to do to be safe, it does not give us  100% back in our schools at this time as an option. And so if we are to have six foot spacing, even three foot spacing, we can't have all our kids back in the building at the same time. And if we can figure out how to meet both of those needs and and and obey both of those masters at the same time, that has been the struggle. And that's why the hybrid is where we landed.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So that we looking at it, if you want to call it a phase two, so that we could get our kids back in the classroom, even if it's only

[10942-500] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (by phone; ASR 'Principal Bailey', 'Pat | 2020-08-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: the building at the same time. And if we can figure out how to meet both of those needs and and and obey both of those masters at the same time, that has been the struggle. And that's why the hybrid is where we landed.
TEXT> So that we looking at it, if you want to call it a phase two, so that we could get our kids back in the classroom, even if it's only for two hours a week with each of their teachers knowing that we've established an online presence that we are continuously upgrading and doing better with and with PD at the beginning of the year with our teachers. We can improve that system of online as a supplement and as a resource. So get our kids back in the classroom doing the things that don't translate well in virtual learning, and then continue to use virtual learning as that support system until the number is either go up and we make a choice in that direction, or  the numbers go down, or a vaccine comes out and we make a decision in the other direction. And that's why after so many weeks and 60 something people on that ask force, we came up with the recommendation we did for a hybrid, because when we looked at the numbers and the logistics of going back full time, we couldn't meet the requirements set to us by the governor and the CDC. So there's the rub, and I, I again, I want to just end by saying thank you to everybody because there's no right and wrong.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And I know how much parents are suffering. Community is suffering. We want to get back to the schools. We want your kids back in the schools 100% of the

[10942-510] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: recall, because we knew what our capacity issues were. We knew what the logistics were. We knew our representation of walkers, drivers, poverty, all those things. Inequity. So that's where we were, and that's why we came up with it in terms of transitioning back.
TEXT> It would probably take we would go for a month. We'd see if it's if it's fine immediately. There's no spikes anyway. We would look at the metric. We didn't get down. We didn't drill down to do the exact things. I know what you know, Newport has,  but we can look at area, you know, rates and things like that. And we could decide to go back. Our issue, as we saw it logistically, was we want to make sure we have enough drivers, we have enough capacity in. Our focus was just on getting our kids back into be very candid with you, our most at risk kids. Okay. That's that's  that we haven't seen for a very long time that we're that we're worried we're worried about all kids. But there are some kids where we need more check ins because of the quality of their lives and some major stressors to them. So that's that's what we were focused on. We know that we would transition. We also know, that we could transition back to remote. And that's what that's what we're afraid of if it goes the other way.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I know there's not evidence of that. We were looking at that. And at the time we were looking at, there wasn't even the spike in the South that there

[10942-554] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Which is what we have now.
TEXT> But we haven't. Like but we haven't compiled all the children yet. So it's that it's it doesn't. That's your that's what you that's what you believe. Yes. It's what you believe.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's zero. Zero no matter like zero plus.

[10942-557] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Zero based off one person not coming into the computer.
TEXT> You have. The. Differences when you. When you take the largest business. And you bring everybody back. Yes. Then we need to look. That's what we need to do. We need to bring everybody back and see what happens from them. Right. But it can happen November. Because that point. It still stays flatline. Then we look at okay it's it's staying flatline. It's there's no impact because you can't say it's zero and it's going to be zero because that's case you're putting you're putting everybody back together. I'm not saying that at all. This is what I'm trying to say. And I don't know how, how other way I can say is if the case has happened in January, after they haven't happened and we reopened because they haven't happened and they happen in January, it still happened. There's no way we can say that by doing this hybrid approach, we're mitigating that at all. Our numbers in the community are zero. Essentially zero zero children have been identified. All the children that have been tested that have been symptomatic in Claremont have tested negative up to this date, and they will test negative until they're not negative. And that can happen any time until we get a vaccine, which we are not going to get for children because they haven't even started trials on children.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So if we're waiting for a vaccine, then it's then we might as well wait five more years. And if we're waiting for that one time, it's going to if

[10942-562] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (named by others: 'Richard's questions'  | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: I'm guessing.
TEXT> Well, if you wouldn't mind, the, this is purely a financial question. If we are going to have teachers or staff in the building having to handle the kids that are in the building, and we're also going to ask them in the same course of the same day to handle a cadre of kids who are not in the building, which is a different teaching method, which is different, a whole different medium. I'm concerned whether or not we have adequate staff or adequate people to be able to handle 50% that are in the building, 50% that are out of the building on every day. So I'm just asking the question from a from a superintendent perspective, because I have a feeling that there is a significant financial ramification of half and half, but I'm not sure. So I'd just like to ask the question out there as or as we're looking at it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There, there could be significant impact. So same thing when we're talking about and again, I don't want to we haven't met with the union yet, but but I've met

[10942-575] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Not off, but you don't have kids in the building on Wednesday. Yeah, you might.
TEXT> Know, but we're following the the staff is following those. The kids that are off for services. We don't  they're there are some like PLC work groups and things like that with products. But the intent and we don't have this  completely fleshed. Now the curriculum team is still working on it, but  the intent of the, the,  the work is that there's a lot of particularly at the middle in the secondary levels, that there's a lot of group work and projects being done directed with other videos and things like that, where where you have a flip video created by the teacher and they're doing that. So that day is already prepped and that day is already have has expectations. And then they have to follow up with other things. Right.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So my point was to the the concern about adding more staff, because you're 100% in school and with the option of remote learning, you're still going to have to

[10942-665] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: So what.
TEXT> We did is. We we put maybe. Three and I think I gave you a. Breakdown and we just the, the, I met with the committee. They said. Can we just. Look at. It and do it for. The year, just so that way it's straight across the board. And so I said, yeah. So all we did was we took  any, any. Fridays that were, early released and we brought them to a Wednesday. So that way it wouldn't impact the kids at all. It wouldn't. Take from either cohorts. And then we have the three PD PD days in front.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And then the start date is September 8th or September 9th.

[10942-680] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: Yes.
TEXT> Is there somewhere in this calendar, then, where the kids who didn't get class? Because if the Thursday kids are going to get a class that day and you you might have said this and I just missed it completely.  So then somewhere down the line, the kids who didn't get that first  class are going to get caught up. You just.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Well, when we went through the whole we did it through the whole entire calendar. Just so that way we can make sure we count the days. So it would

[10942-681] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: Thursday kids are going to get a class that day and you you might have said this and I just missed it completely. So then somewhere down the line, the kids who didn't get that first class are going to get caught up. You just.
TEXT> Well,  when we went through the whole we did it through the whole entire calendar. Just so that way we can make sure we count the days. So it would be exactly even through the whole year, it would be the kids would have exactly the even amount of days.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And so we have no expectation necessarily, then, of the kids being on the same material in the same weeks.

[10942-682] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: the whole we did it through the whole entire calendar. Just so that way we can make sure we count the days. So it would be exactly even through the whole year, it would be the kids would have exactly the even amount of days.
TEXT> And so we have no expectation necessarily, then, of the kids being on the same material in the same weeks.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: I'm sorry I say that again.

[10942-684] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: I'm sorry I say that again.
TEXT> I'm saying that then we don't necessarily have the kids being on the same material in the same weeks. Right? Because if, if, if the kids are go on that Thursday, they're going to their material is going to be of course you're doing.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Oh, I see what you're saying.

[10974-49] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair's opening segments [0]-[54] in th | 2020-09-02
PREV> Richard Seaman: some paving work around the back of the building. If you're familiar with where there was a sinkhole going in through some of the, where some of the storm drainage, which so that has been completed updating on bathroom stalls and, some other interior work.
TEXT> Was, big project related to the heating system. So the heating system was basically putting in heating controls all the way down. The. Is that the new wing or the old wing, the north wing that goes from and heads off to the north? A youth project. We are not quite completed with it. All of the piping has been done. All of the radiators are in some of the control part is still has to be completed. Will be completed prior to the heating season opening up.  But yeah, that was an enormous project. And thank you to the people in the building, because if you went in there during the summer, it was it was really torn up and it was appreciated.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Hey, Richard, since we're talking about designer and I'm just curious. It's unmuted in the in the Dennard repairs and things like that. Did we replace the fire panel there

[10974-74] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Now we're going to go to the superintendent's. We'll now go to the superintendent's report.
TEXT> Okay. So. We have double mikes. Double computers. Let's see what we have here.  How how's everyone on online sound check. Everything good. All right. So obviously we're we're really excited to have students back. It's been a long time over five months tomorrow. Teachers have been in constantly the past week. We've had some amazing professional development renovations inside the building. Some of the things that I'm just going to, we put a slideshow together to kind of take you in to what it's been like in the past week, and somewhat of a before and after, because, to be completely honest. A week ago in each school, you wouldn't think it looks like it's ready to go, like it is for tomorrow. So, first, those are I have a slide of our students in fall sports just getting back. And they're starting their workout. See how they are,  you know, spread out and trying to do that. In some cases, they're wearing masks. Some cases, they're spread out 5 or 10ft in there. They're not because they're exerting, this is a slide that takes us back to September of 2019  on a happy day in Maple.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And, it's going to be a little bit I use it for comparison purposes. To see what we have. Not that we're not going to have a happy day tomorrow,

[10974-79] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Learning the promise of.
TEXT> Of this and why it's so germane to. The reason it's so important for our kids. John Hattie was also one of the other coauthors. And the premise of this is in a couple of the sound bites that they that they talked about, and we obviously read the book to help lead the staff with it, is that we didn't really do remote teaching. Okay. It wasn't a remote teaching situation in the spring, right? It was crisis teaching. Everyone was ushered out in and we may do and things like that, but there's there's a lot of intentional PD and a lot of steps and a lot of recurring PD that will happen that the the team has put countless hours into  doing that, offering courses over the summer for folks to come in on their own time, which many of our staff did on their own time. The Stephen's gym was full. I passed through a couple of those people. Really took advantage of, really excited to get back with students and offer a lot of opportunities. So this is I was with at this juncture, we had multiple workshops today. I happen to attend this one in the afternoon for a little while with the Maple Crew.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And you can see them all, all spread out, socially distanced. This is another professional development we had talking about social emotional care. And in things like self-harm and suicidal

[10974-92] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I believe. So you can see that the balance that we have achieved these might be slightly skewed. I think they were from a 3 or 4 days ago Saturday. Okay. So but they're but they're pretty much everyone is accounted for with the tracks.
TEXT> The see track is the remote track what you can see. And we did not anticipate this, that there were 161 remote students in the elementary school. We did not see that coming. Very high. But there was enough because those cohorts were large enough. We were able to dedicate teachers directly to their own class remotely. So that was not the case, as you can see. In the in the high school, in the middle school, where there are approximately 174 students. But you can't tease out you don't have because of the difference of subject matter certification in the specificity of the curriculum. You can't just tease out whole cohorts. You didn't have a complete set of English, you know, nine teachers. And  so those  we had to have the, the, the remote students in the classes and the C cohort with the other students as well. And that's explained on, on the website so that they have in addition to that, some of those students I believe, have some courses in other  types of offerings. Odyssey where but most of them follow the Google Classroom, just like the kids who are in the hybrid. But they have to do that remotely with some assistance from the teacher in the paraprofessional are pushing out information to them.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So that's that's what we have the most remarkable stat that we've seen in recent years. Okay, so last year at this time, we had six students requesting, to be

[10974-100] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Jason Benware: with, how did it work so that you could get a decent blend so you didn't get one class that had a lot of kids with needs in one class that had very few, or, you know what I mean? Did that work out okay?
TEXT> Well, one of the things that we were very, very no, one of the things we were very, very fortunate about is that, well, what we did at first is we we looked at our cohorts, so we followed kind of the high school did theirs, and then the middle school did theirs. And so we kind of followed that all the way down through and try. And the very first thing that we did is we looked at household members. So we put all household members together. Then it left us some flexibility. So if we saw that we had, you know, our B group had, you know, a lot of kids that may have, you know, needed more assistance. We could take those kids and move them to the A group. So we were able to have that flexibility to do that. So we were able to make some changes. So they didn't have that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I just have a quick, quick question about the home schooling number. So it's my understanding it correct me if I'm wrong, that if a family request for their child

[10974-101] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: kids that may have, you know, needed more assistance. We could take those kids and move them to the A group. So we were able to have that flexibility to do that. So we were able to make some changes. So they didn't have that.
TEXT> I just have a quick, quick question about the home schooling number. So it's my understanding it correct me if I'm wrong, that if a family request for their child to be to go to the home school track, that they become independent of the school district, correct. And they're no longer being provided services from the school?
NEXT> Jason Benware: Yeah.

[10974-105] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: any time? Can somebody who has chosen to go to the home school model come back into the district? Yeah. Or is it at the end of the school year? Can you just, like, jump in and out of home school and. Yes you can.
TEXT> Yes. One of the things that that, you know,  that we look at, too, is what we reached out, you know, we reach out to a lot of the families because we wanted to make sure that they were aware that, you know, once you become homeschooled, the district is no longer responsible for your child, that that's something that you have to come up with the work and everything yourself. We don't have to provide anything to the families. And so a lot of them decided that they wanted to do that. We had quite a few that said, oh, I wasn't aware of that and came back to do do hybrid.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yes, Jason.

[10974-107] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yes, Jason.
TEXT> So in that sense, and if you said that while I was killing the bee, I apologize. When we have people that go homeschool, then we we lose the state revenue for those kids.  How long do they have to be in rolled in the school for us to get that revenue? So in other words, if a kid becomes a homeschooler at the beginning of the year, then we lose the revenue from the state for that kid and it reduces what is it called our average daily attendance? Is that what it is? Yeah. So if then they choose at some point to come back to the school, how long must they be in the school for us to get their revenue back?  Do you know, I don't mean to throw this on anybody.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I think I think of that. I don't I don't know specifically for New Hampshire. I don't I think.

[10974-117] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and out. And so it's going to the wire like like it does. It's just a matter of degree each year. But we know that we have to up our game with that this year. And it's going to be a focus for us. Yes.
TEXT> This will be the probably the last one for a few minutes. Anyway. Do are we required to provide bussing for every student in the district.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Within a certain range? Yes. Yeah. We have they have to have access to that if we decide. As for a policy that we're going to eliminate that.

[10974-120] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: But the state of New Hampshire, the reason I question that is because there are certain districts within New Hampshire that are not providing.
TEXT> Saying, I was going to say, I don't think so, because I know my daughter's school district where she works, the elementary school, they bus, but then the kids go to a high school outside of where they, you know, outside of their town. And it's up to the parents to get their own kids to those schools. So I, I'm guessing, you know, I don't know, for 100% sure I can look into it, but I don't think it will private law to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: In particular, in response to the current environment that we have with the virus, there are some districts that have opted out of providing bussing because of the issues with

[10974-121] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: know, outside of their town. And it's up to the parents to get their own kids to those schools. So I, I'm guessing, you know, I don't know, for 100% sure I can look into it, but I don't think it will private law to.
TEXT> In particular, in response to the current environment that we have with the virus, there are some districts that have opted out of providing bussing because of the issues with social distancing in the bussing to allow for full school attendance. So I just have some concerns that, you know, we may be presenting,  a, desire of the community to provide bussing versus a requisite for the community, for the district, to provide bussing for the community. And if that's a barrier to returning to, full end time school, then we may need to consider, how we feel about providing bussing to every student if it's going to be a barrier to having all students return to school who choose to return to school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think I think that there was a on the survey. That there was a question, I believe that sort of led to the, response that about 25% would have

[10974-142] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: We can all kind of.
TEXT> We just  obviously are the concern of the administrative team. And I will speak for all the, all the, the  all everyone is just the safety of the kids and it being unknown. And I, I get all of the, perspectives that, that were very low from the other. But I do think it's in terms of comparing the summer to the fall. And when people come back,  I think, maybe it's just psychological safety, maybe it's other types of things. I'm not, as I mentioned, but I do think, there are some other logistical concerns, including, you know, semesters when the grade cutoffs are how you did, you know, but I do think we should start. We should get that committee. We should start looking at it right away. And,  I mean, I'm not ready to propose a  date and time on that. I. I haven't even seen the document yet. We've been too busy opening school, you know? So, we have to get everyone in first. We have to get all the systems going, but we're we're open to start looking at that, because what we do know from this model, and  there's certainly not no one's in love with this model, believe me.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But we do know that it's going to take a lot of time. Just the communication of where we're going, getting all of those things, getting everything as to what

[10974-144] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: didn't have transportation, if we had this, what would prohibit a full there's a lot of a lot of moving parts in all of that. It's it's sounds somewhat simplistic, but there's a lot of information that to gather. So sooner the better, I guess.
TEXT> So can I, I just want to get a point of clarity to what you're saying, just so that I understand. And I'm going to let, like, go. When you say full open, you're saying those people who are out on home school, those people who are out on remote remain correct? You're talking about the kids who are currently currently here. Yeah, because I want to make sure that that's perfectly clear.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So you're talking that the kids that are currently hybrid becoming full.

[10974-145] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: When you say full open, you're saying those people who are out on home school, those people who are out on remote remain correct? You're talking about the kids who are currently currently here. Yeah, because I want to make sure that that's perfectly clear.
TEXT> So you're talking that the kids that are currently hybrid becoming full.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: A and B.

[10974-147] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: A and B.
TEXT> And B, that what you would see is the kids that are remote may come. Some of them may want to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Come back.

[10974-163] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (medium - same voice as Speaker 24; work | 2020-09-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: know you keep mentioning, you know, having a committee work on it or whatever, but I'd really like to see a clear timeline on when we can review this type of stuff and, what our goal is for reopening and realistically, the timeline for that.
TEXT> Now, the other thing is that we keep talking about in my district is, the hot topic, actually all the every day this week and it sent me right over the edge is, you know, how are we going to do a full open like  where all, you know, planning for the hybrid and then at their next school board meeting, we could end up going full  open for all students if the school board decides that. So  I want to know what you guys think. The turnaround time to move back to a full reopen for cohorts A and B not see, would be because I think people don't understand that that's going to take a minute to a hot minute, because it's not just as simple as tossing all the kids back in a classroom. There's a lot of logistics that goes behind each and every detail. So what are your thoughts on how long that might take for the turnaround?  What are your thoughts on having a solid date? To be able to review this and think about a reopen, should it be prior to November? That's it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. I mean just initially. So to have it's a matter of degree how we would space all of those kids and double the size. So if we're, if we're,

[10974-164] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: and every detail. So what are your thoughts on how long that might take for the turnaround? What are your thoughts on having a solid date? To be able to review this and think about a reopen, should it be prior to November? That's it.
TEXT> Yeah. I mean just initially. So to have it's a matter of degree how we would space all of those kids and double the size. So if we're, if we're, if we're going for under ten in a class to go into 20 in a class in the degree to which we,  you know, are encroaching upon the two foot guidance to have everyone in all at once, that type of thing. I mean, I think in, in if that's what you're going for, right? You want everyone back at least four days every day in person. Right. I don't know, we haven't.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Let me I haven't really spoken. So, I, I have the benefit of being retired. So I haven't been starting up a school this fall, thank God. So I've been

[10974-166] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: a that's a hard no elementary kids. Yeah. I don't I don't think there's a reason why not. We have to look at the numbers. We have to look at the bussing issues and things and really test people's the community's commitment to to that.
TEXT> Is this what you really want? Then you're going to have to step up and and get the kids to school.  So one of the other things that's in this guidance that I liked a lot  was most of the models that I've seen out there in the world are based on county infection rates, which is a good, safe, data driven way to go  based on infections per 10,000 of population. And if you look at New Hampshire right now in Sullivan County,  we are so far in the green for that that it's it's absurd that we're, you know, by a lot of standards that were were not in school. And I will say based on my motion, when we decided to go with the hybrid, I felt it was extremely important to give the administration and teachers and kids a chance to adapt to the interventions that we have put in place. To have everybody come back at once would be an overload, and all of our precautions would have been overwhelmed and failed. I'm confident of that. So but at this point in time, giving time for people to get up to speed on all the systems, I would support an early.  Earlier, little kids, later big kids. And I support what Rebecca said. I can see a committee  coming together, but I'm not sure how much they can improve on that document.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That's great.

[10974-306] James Ward | Public commenter by phone, Claremont (single parent of a Stevens stude | 2020-09-02
PREV> James Ward: I mentioned in my emails, has been fruitless. It's frustrating. And and that's the hard part. I don't necessarily need to agree with your plan. But gosh, when I asked for information and no one of multiple people wants to even respond back to me.
TEXT> It's really hard to stomach, as someone who is a single parent and has been a member of this community for a very long time and pays taxes, owns a home, and literally said, don't worry about the busses, I'll figure it out. Even as a single parent, I'll find a way to get my child to school and back so you don't have to deal with that burden. So people who really need it, it's available to them, and I can't even get a response from you. And then to hear, you know, like the thing to the child will have you emailed anyone or have you told anyone? All of this is just really frustrating for me. I don't mean to sound like I'm coming down on you as an individual as much as this whole process, whether I agree with whether we should be in school or not. Goodness gracious you. You guys are the ones who are responsible for this. And the fact that I'm reading studies hours and hours before you, and that a child is suggesting something that you hadn't even considered or thought of.
NEXT> James Ward: And then I've emailed multiple times and can't get a response. It's very frustrating. And as I said, I'm not here to say that you're right or you're wrong and

[10974-307] James Ward | Public commenter by phone, Claremont (single parent of a Stevens stude | 2020-09-02
PREV> James Ward: be in school or not. Goodness gracious you. You guys are the ones who are responsible for this. And the fact that I'm reading studies hours and hours before you, and that a child is suggesting something that you hadn't even considered or thought of.
TEXT> And then I've emailed multiple times and can't get a response. It's very frustrating. And as I said, I'm not here to say that you're right or you're wrong and I'm right or you're wrong. The communication has been really, really hard to stomach. As someone who's outreaching, just trying to get an understanding of what needs to happen to make this plan work that you say is the best. And even when I say, okay, I can stomach your plan, I'll figure it out. If you think this is what's best for my child, I'm I'm I'm  on board for that. When I can't even get a response to that. I can't even imagine what you're dealing with. The people who are really frustrated and hurt and is going to, like, cripple them from a family or economic standpoint. And I'm I'm not trying to sound like I'm on a soapbox or I'm ranting. It's just you can't tell me that that. People who are trying to communicate with you and to make the best of the situation and stuff that you're being completely clear up front with, and I'm losing confidence in what my tax dollars are being spent on.
NEXT> James Ward: When you can't respond emails, you can't answer phone calls, nor can you even be aware of studies that I knew about long before you, as an individual person who's

[10974-363] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair's opening segments [0]-[54] in th | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: There's there's the CDC.
TEXT> Is there anything in that document that says they we will no longer maintain any degree of separation between our students?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No. We can we can still maintain.

[10974-382] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: community thinks that what we did was, was not a good plan. So I just want to make sure that the people in the community out there that that like this plan, know that we do recognize that they did. They agreed with this plan.
TEXT> I personally, I think it's a very good plan to start because it gives people the opportunity to get their feet under them legs unto them. For the beginning of the school year. You've got a lot of interventions. It's easier to do with half the kids.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And and I'm trying to I'm currently trying to find I every Friday I sit in with with Doctor Chan. And one of the questions, because my big thing was,

[10974-391] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (medium - same voice as Speaker 24; work | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: So the 23rd is another Wednesday. That's three weeks from three weeks from today. Three calendar weeks from today.
TEXT> I would. Sorry I didn't raise my hand, but I would I would advocate for three weeks as opposed to two weeks for anything. Because and this isn't to take away from anybody, but unless you're in education, you do not understand  the magnitude of the decision making and everything that is going into right now, being able to get kids in, and whether you like the hybrid plan or not is a moot point at this point, because that's what's happening. And so there's so many millions of things that need to go into making that happen. And in a regular school year, it takes a couple of weeks to get acclimated in general. And I'm talking about kids who are conditioned to five days a week with with everything. Like, I can't even imagine how. People are going to hate me, but I can't imagine how, administrators and staff are going to be able to even comprehend trying to gather a whole bunch of new information when you're still trying to just figure out this information, whether you like it or not, and how to make it work for now. But I would I would advocate for three weeks minimum, and then I would just advocate for it to be a plan or something along those lines.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I do like this and it is the hot topic of today. I'm not going to lie, it is the hot topic, but it's hot to me because it makes

[10974-483] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yep.
TEXT> For administration. So a lot of the things that that come up have been like, the biggest question that I've been getting is, why are we not doing live instruction in the classroom for the kids at home? Can you guys explain the logistics behind that and the reasoning behind why? And I've heard some rumors that, tools for being able to do that were on back order. So can you just explain to the public why we are not doing that at this point in time, just to clear that up for everyone.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: For the first issue? When you're talking about back order. So we, we pre Covid had made the the move to go to 1 to 1 this year. We had

[10974-520] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do that.
TEXT> That's a  that's a solid no for me. For a couple of reasons. So what we're saying is, is that sorry. I'll do that again. This is a no for me. So what we're saying is or what what you just said to me was and what was in the letter was, it's disingenuous because we're telling them they need to do something for others with nothing in return. But then in the next breath, we're saying, but it'll be great on your college transcripts. It'll be this and that and the other thing. So they're still getting something out of it. And I don't care one way or the other what necessarily. I do care that they they learn how to possibly do community service, because a lot of these kids probably would never get the notion of it without this being presented in this way. But secondly, even if they get nothing out of it and they do a mad scramble, there is a benefit because somebody is benefiting from this. There's a community benefit to this. And I'm I just have a hard time removing it from the,  from the curriculum.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so, Richard, I'm going to pick your brain for a second.

[10974-541] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: for each year, I would I would do that. But I don't want to take community service away. Wondering if there's more to it than just what was in the email like. Is it a pain in the butt for tracking for school purposes, or.
TEXT> I don't  know, the kids fill out? Yeah. And then they bring it to the person. The person signs off on it, and then they bring it to the school and the school uploads it into the system.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So and if kids aren't going on community service day, could we just not do that community service day? And then they'll have to figure it out.

[10974-544] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: Like, you know.
TEXT> I, I would support more of a community experience versus community service. And I like the what's that? And I like the idea of students being able to job shadow, to be able to get out and maybe go to a day at Dartmouth or at another local college to just experience another way of living and seeing the world,  and to have it to be a growth opportunity. I think that that would benefit students, you know, and maybe motivate them a little bit more to engage.
NEXT> Unidentified: What did you call it?

[10974-593] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: are still working on extensions. So the 65 classes that will not have to be retaken, that's progress, from previous years. So that that's something to be applauded, particularly in spite of of the situations out there. So I don't have anything more than that.
TEXT> I think it was just more informational that they, you know, that I know you wanted to look at seeing what it kind of looked like over the last few years. You can see that the dropout rates declining, which is a good thing. You know, we did have, of course, because of Covid, a little bit of issues.  But the kids were able to come back and, and do some really good things during the summer to get, you know, 65 classes. That's big, that's big. So and, and you may have seen on some of our, our, Facebook pages, kids that were graduating due to discredit recovery. So it was very successful this summer for our kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you.

[10992-30] Shannon Popescu | SAU 6 Board member (Unity) (uncertain - sports update right after Eric | 2020-09-22
PREV> Unidentified: Not that long ago.
TEXT> Because of lack of participation. But we are starting with a younger group, and we've got a pretty good start with these kids, so it's exciting.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Anything for an update? All right. Well, if we're all good, we're on to the superintendent's report. Sure.

[10992-36] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-22
PREV> Michael Petrin: Sure.
TEXT> All right. So. So we had a just to talk about the opening of school in both unity and in Claremont. Off to a fantastic opening.  Particularly in unity. Great transition from the principal ship to Susan Schroeder, who was hit the ground running. No stranger to the unity. Just amazing things happening in the school. You can see the upper left picture for those at home. You see this? I tried to get both in both frames. The teachers kind of pining for the kids to come back all summer and all spring and just really excited about it. Kind of before and after, you can see some of the dividers that are visible. The plexiglass dividers made. Down here. We got a bunch up. To the school made here by the by the prisoners. And sharing those, you can see the cardboard dividers. Definitely an enormous change, you know, for everyone in both places.  In another. Another event. Second year seeing at the September 11th celebration at the flagpole. Absolutely. Moving remembrance. Just a great community event. Kid. Kids reciting, you know, essays of  of what it means to them, you know, years later.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And it's just just a just great thing. And then we had a the town meeting before that too, which went very well without a hitch. You can see the,

[10992-37] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-22
PREV> Michael Tempesta: for everyone in both places. In another. Another event. Second year seeing at the September 11th celebration at the flagpole. Absolutely. Moving remembrance. Just a great community event. Kid. Kids reciting, you know, essays of of what it means to them, you know, years later.
TEXT> And it's just just a just great thing. And then we had a the town meeting before that too, which went very well without a hitch. You can see the, the lonely social distance. Slide to the right with all the seats before from the upper deck. They. I thought they did a marvelous job spacing that  as well. And it went. It went really well. We have a budget. We're ready to go. Now we're going to start on the next one. Right. So so it was a great opening.  Similar. And Claremont reopened with the with the hybrid. And you can see some of the happy faces the kids again adjusting to the mass and things like that. The quote new normal. I have a couple slides in there. Board members went around. We're trying to get our numbers and talk to people about moving towards, as we were tasked to come up with, that, we'll be presenting tomorrow what the impacts will be to go back full remote sooner than we anticipated.  And we'll have more on that, more on that tomorrow. We thank you know, there's there's trade offs. We're going to have, you know, some some more data to go over and things like that in the about doing it with compliance.  But we'll have a whole presentation on that tomorrow.  But but that's all I have both both places. It's just amazing to see the kids back. The principals energized, the teachers energized.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And it's very different than it was before. But it but it's things are going along very early and systematically a lot of planning, a lot a lot of people.

