[15003-271] Ivey Coburn | Division Director of Education and Workforce, Southern Regional Educat | 2023-04-05
PREV> Ivey Coburn: ultimately, all six components will be found in the final report and are a part of our process. And then finally, as we think through the last phase of those three gears that we laid out, is really trying to move forward with strategic planning.
TEXT> So what is the plan for the future and how we can match these opportunities for our students? So this is where we bring in the shareholder groups. Again, this can be an opportunity where we have expanded membership so we can reach out if we have an opportunity to have all career tech teachers involved, more administrators than we typically would have in our shareholder group, this is a great opportunity for them to read the report, help us unpack that report, and then from that, those shareholder teams identify the priorities that will move the district for the next 3 to 5 years. So when we think through this process, we generate the report, and then all of the extended shareholder group would be able to respond from that. As we're looking at it, they identify priorities. They may want to draw back and identify additional data resources that either they want to collect to fully understand the problem that they're trying to address within that priority, or the data that they want to use to progress monitor as they start moving forward. So with that, they set goals. We start to think through how the action plans actually fall into play, and then really look at a cycle of engagement so that if we're going after maybe one new CTE, CTE area as a priority, we do this process with our problem solving  wheel, as I call it. We move through with that one.
NEXT> Ivey Coburn: We look at the lessons learned from that one implementation. Then we draw back and then repeat that process for others that are needed from, of course, the reports in

[15022-69] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - reads the two nonpublic roll calls a | 2023-04-13
PREV> Steven Horsky: moving on then. Student representative report. Hannah is not here this evening to give us a rundown. So we are going to move on to discussion action items. And we will start with the Luchini Report update. And we will start with the curriculum update.
TEXT> Okay. So we're continuing to move forward with the coaching model. We're advertising for those positions for next year.  We are, hoping to have two elementary, one middle school and,  one high school at  the Claremont. And then, we are  working. We want a full time coaching unity, but we're working on that same model. Using Stephanie and anybody else who's in the SA to myself and Stephanie basically to, to do that coaching. We have,  math training coming up at the end of the last week of June.  A gentleman, Derek Staves, who worked with unity, is that unity worked with the all teachers, was a well received training. They asked for some more. And so we were able to bring them back for a full week at the end of the and the very last week of June. And it's mostly about math, problem solving and, getting away from the show, how to do a problem and everybody mimics it to get develop a new a numeracy or a math literacy with our students. Other than that, I think we're there's not much new. We're getting ready to, At our last meeting, unity. They showed student data about another month.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Will collect our third round of student data to show growth over the course of the year. We're we've, I think, established that as a, as a culture. So now

[15022-82] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - reads the two nonpublic roll calls a | 2023-04-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's good.
TEXT> Yeah. Yeah. And but we need to get our students more, more of that kind of practice. Because you can just Google any kind of question now and get an answer. And so you need, you know, you need to have your brain do things that Google can't.
NEXT> Unidentified: Show the work.

[15022-391] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Board member; Claremont School Board member elected 3/14/23; ele | 2023-04-13
PREV> Steven Horsky: put on the radar? And if there isn't anything that comes to mind at this time, please don't forget to email them to Rocco or myself so that we can make sure that they get added to the agenda. Is there any other business? Arlene.
TEXT> I  found a link on our website to the 603 Bright Futures survey, which is a survey that gathers actionable feedback around learning models, school climate, family, and community engagement so that we can understand successes and challenges of this current school year and also to plan for the upcoming school year. The responses are specific to Claremont and to unity, and they don't ask for your name or any other identifiable information. You can fill it in. As a parent, as a community member,  as a staff member, I believe I may not be right on that one. And we have until April 28th to complete that survey. And I think that's important for information for  the public to know, to go to the link on the website. And it's also helpful for us in doing strategic planning and looking forward to where we want to go as an and as both,  both individual school districts. And I'm wondering if it can be put on the individual schools websites web pages as well. So if a parent is going to their child's school, they'll see the survey as well.  I just thought it was very helpful.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Is that a pretty easy thing to embed under those? Jeff. Yeah. Great. Well, then I will assume that that's the pleasure of the board, because that makes a lot

[15028-33] Sean McCarthy | Ward 1 resident speaking in citizens' comments | 2023-04-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: would like to have a public comment that is not on an agenda item can come to the podium. State your name and you have three minutes to have a comment. Is there anybody in the audience that would like to participate in public comments?
TEXT> Sean McCarthy in the first Ward. I just live right through the woods here on Chestnut Street and. Your school next door is becoming a nuisance. It's not the teachers, it's not the students. It's the parents. In the afternoon, picking up their children, charges clients, whatever. And, been a problem with them in the not speaking on behalf of the community center. But I'm there at the community center using the pool, and they go in there and they take over the parking lot there. Now I see the community centers put out signs, teepee signs saying, this is a fire lane, don't park here. But they start stacking up in front of the school on both sides of the street, and it's a real nuisance. Most recently,  it was just a little over a week ago. I come out of the pool and here's a parent parked right next to my car. I can't even get into it. They backed into the space, and I have to wait for his kids to get in the car, and then they leave. But I have it on my dash cam of leaving, dealing with different problems, and then you get down the street in. The busses have taken over Chase Street and Chestnut Street because they're trying to go around the traffic in another direction.
NEXT> Sean McCarthy: And then I get bus drivers saying, don't go this way. You go around my neighborhood, and why are these busses going out of the way and coming back the

[15028-34] Sean McCarthy | Ward 1 resident speaking in citizens' comments | 2023-04-19
PREV> Sean McCarthy: they leave. But I have it on my dash cam of leaving, dealing with different problems, and then you get down the street in. The busses have taken over Chase Street and Chestnut Street because they're trying to go around the traffic in another direction.
TEXT> And then I get bus drivers saying, don't go this way. You go around my neighborhood, and why are these busses going out of the way and coming back the other way? So I go to your office, I'm Broad Street, and I asked to speak to the transportation person there, and I sent him to get was a run around. The woman said she didn't know where the transportation office was, or she wasn't going to tell me, or she know where it was at. Had trouble taking my name and my phone number. I finally just gave her a business card with my name and my email address and phone number on it, and nobody got back to me. Tried to handle this at the lowest level. I'm here tonight complaining to you about it. Next I'm go to the police department. Say it's a nuisance. If this was a business somewhere, people wouldn't tolerate customers all over the place in the street parking what they wanted to so easily. People could come in at the end of that school. But that long round driver that goes behind their first in, first out and wait for the kids and released out the back of school, they stay in school property.
NEXT> Sean McCarthy: They could be coming over to here and staging areas and meeting their parents. But instead nobody has looked at this as, hey, this is a problem and we need

[15028-37] Andy | Ward 3 resident — surname never stated; same first-name-only 'Andy, Wa | 2023-04-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Is there anyone, any any other citizens? Okay. This is publicly public. Comments with regards.
TEXT> Thank you. Andy Ward three I'm here tonight with a public service announcement regarding education funding and the problem with New Hampshire's school funding system. The significant differences in tax rates and funding levels between districts continues to negatively impact  communities like Claremont. And the state's failure to adequately address this problem and adequately fund public education, despite court orders to do so, leads to districts with less property valuation having to tax themselves at higher rates than districts with higher property valuation in order to achieve comparable funding and student outcomes. It's the elephant in the room when it comes to struggling through our budget process, our deliberative session, and ultimately, when voters have to make tough choices between school funding and tax payments. Districts with lower property values continue to struggle, while communities with higher property values generate more funding for their schools. And this flies in the face of the demands of several court cases and results in very difficult decisions when it comes to providing the best education for our children. Now, this is not new. For many of us. This has been an on again, off again thing for  a number of years. So long, in fact, that people have become fatigued, disconnected.  A whole new crop of people has come along, maybe with no recollection or understanding of this issue at all. But I'm here tonight to say that people and organizations around New Hampshire are still pushing for change.
NEXT> Andy: The issue is, again, in the courts. It's again gaining momentum in one organization in particular, the New Hampshire School Funding Fairness Project is working tirelessly to advocate for fair

[15028-48] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair — elected chair 4/5/23; arrives after the | 2023-04-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: basically, there's just not enough we're not given enough money for base adequacy. It just costs so much more. But, that's the update. I I don't. It's just continuing. I know we had a packed agenda, but I just wanted. To share. That. As well.
TEXT> Thank you. Thank you, Mister Tempesta. And  we're going to move on to our reconfigured or reordered agenda, which is going to start with the  the acceptance of a gift of $3,000 facilitated by the adopt a classroom. And is there anyone here to speak on behalf of that? No. If not, I think we also board. We're just going to be  expressing our thanks to adopt a classroom for facilitating this, acquisition of funds to help our teachers and our schools succeed. So we're just giving a shout out to adopt a classroom.  Next, we're going to move on to presentation by  Principal Christopher Pratt from Stevens High School.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Good evening everybody. Thank you for having me here tonight. So public notes on the. Board had asked that. Some, some questions of myself to answer and provide to the

[15028-50] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Chris Pratt: high school that I've been a part of. And I felt that this year a focus from the beginning of the school year, we really wanted to work on school climate, providing a safe and healthy environment for students and teachers for when they're there.
TEXT> So we all decided that was what we were going to work on this year. And so one of the things we did is we incorporated the cognitive recognition cards. And what you see here is on the left,  the teacher fills out both of them, or anyone who wants to give a card. And the the left gets pulled off and given to the house administrator in the in the right piece goes home to students. And what we do with these cards is, is that we have our house meetings. We broke up the the school into two houses alphabetically. It gets A through L and M through Z, and the  assistant principals. We have our House meetings once a month at the end of the month, and so we try to focus on the positive for our students in the building. And these cards can be given for any time a teacher feel as students doing just being a good student, or if they see progress in a student for whatever reason, they want to give these cards. And so that was one way that we we tried to improve on acknowledging students for when they're doing something good. We also  and that was all this is part of the restorative approach to to Stevens High School.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We also had in the process of setting up the the student panel, and what this is here is that, as you can see down below there, that's just a

[15028-52] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Chris Pratt: always taking the next level and with more, more, more discipline. And because we want them to talk about in here, what would they do different? How did that make the other person feel? And you could do it with we did it with students.
TEXT> We've done it with teachers and students. So it's really just tying and educational component to when things happen at the school. We also started a  Cardinal support team, and this is where  you have some students that are achieving hiring the academics. We have nine mentors that work with various students throughout the school that we pair them up with, and they work with him, work with them during like advisory time or,  the rest of the week during focus study, just to give them tutoring in some of the subject areas to help them get caught up. And it's a good it's a good way to get students taking on a leadership role, as you can see there through,  training, communication and giving them leadership skills that we want at Stevens High School. And,  the picture on the side there is what we put up to get students interest. So we're really trying to give student leadership roles in helping out each other and giving back to to the school. And any of the students that I mentioned that we have, we do give them community service because it's not something they had to do. They're they're taking their time to do that.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So cognitive restorative response to student panel. This is a this is what I'm going back to the student panels where we're in the process now in May of recruiting

[15028-53] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Chris Pratt: in helping out each other and giving back to to the school. And any of the students that I mentioned that we have, we do give them community service because it's not something they had to do. They're they're taking their time to do that.
TEXT> So cognitive restorative response to student panel. This is a this is what I'm going back to the student panels where  we're in the process now in May of recruiting students to be on the student panel. And we want students that represent the whole community. We just don't want a student. We want students who may be on the other side of the table who've experienced, their own discipline and they've had in the past. So we're in the process of setting up that panel so their peers would go in front of them. And it's not a judiciary panel. It's a it's a panel similar that you would have that was led by an adult. And talking through the problems, how you would do things differently. And we're hoping to have  three panels of 3 to 4 students each. And so hopefully we find them in May. And when the fall stops we'll be able to have these student panels. And this is just more on the, on the program and the Accountability Project. I'll show you in the next slide here. So what the Accountability Project is, is that. Get a little.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Closer to see is here is we actually get an assignment. And it's the areas that are making a connection. Real world scenario. Best correlation with situation. What format we

[15028-56] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Chris Pratt: that just updated from this afternoon. So this is the we keep track of that to healthy competition. We do it by house, but we also break it up in grades because you know I seniors have come out of nowhere in the past week.
TEXT> And they're they're moving up because I don't think they want to lose to the to the senior, the freshmen. So the kids that follow the teachers have fun with it. And so this is my house. I couldn't get the colors to work. So  blue is red. So there is. Red is blue, silver red. But anyways, as you can see, there is that of 579 responses. Right now you have the Red House in the lead 53%, followed by the silver House with 45%. So they have another week to do this. And so after we get back from break, we'll save that for a minute. After they get back from break, we take all those cards that we have in the in the winning house. We'll have their cards put in from the entire year into a drawing for some bigger prizes that they can they can win. And they'll also, the winning house will also have their own cookout right at the school. So it's kind of like an NBA celebration celebrating all the good stuff they did rather than ending on a bad note.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Not wanting to end on a bad note, I wanted to give the board in the public a little a little data. Here we go. So if you look at

[15028-60] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Chris Pratt: to everyone. But the rest of the stuff is just, you know, what was the greatest challenge that you observed with students facing? And I think hands down, its associated emotional learning that that that's going on, that's interrupting with the education and the classrooms.
TEXT> You know, students, even adults are coming with a lot of things already to school of work. And I think, you know,  you know, and what would the, you know, would you ask for the board? I would say really take a look at what we can do to get our teachers the training to work with these kids social, emotional and through trauma informed instruction, because it is really getting in the way of what's going on in the schools this year. I just put a little, informational piece in there, what trauma informed teaching looks like and what it is. And,  these are the extra supports and restriction to improve behavior, mental health. That's even high school that we put in this year. Creating a safe, respectful school climate positive recognition cards. How systems communication with students and parents and guardians. Administrative team approach meaning we're making decisions. We'll making them together. And if an administrator has to make a decision, we're basing it on the conversations we had with teachers and then,  Excel. That's the individual learning assessment that we, that we have,  that we've been given and that personalized learning for every student. So we're able to meet them where they're at.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And we started that around February. We're also in the process of by the end of this year, we'll have all the courses that we have offered at the high

[15028-61] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Chris Pratt: a decision, we're basing it on the conversations we had with teachers and then, Excel. That's the individual learning assessment that we, that we have, that we've been given and that personalized learning for every student. So we're able to meet them where they're at.
TEXT> And we started that around February.  We're also in the process of by the end of this year, we'll have all the courses that we have offered at the high school will be an odyssey where. So we can start reaching out to those students who would rather have a self-paced learning. And so. These are the successes we would have this year when the board asks ongoing dedication of a faculty and staff, is there number one in the high work that even students have put into it to focus on building in school climate  decline in out-of-school suspensions, the restorative approach,  consistent accountability with all students building relationships has been key. Can't build relationships and can't build trust with the students. So we might have a lot of students coming and going from our office, but they're not leaving upset very few times that I feel that they disrespectful and they don't understand what they did. So that's that's positive. And we've been trying to focus on the positive rather than the negative. How can the board support support the educators at Stevens High School District wide goals and visions that give the professional development and time that is needed in order to deal with ongoing trauma and social emotional needs that students are facing.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So I give you guys a copy of that. At the meantime, if you ever have any questions, even in the public, you can just send them to my email

[15028-78] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: I was just wondering looking at the stats of by grade level.
TEXT> Yeah, right now we know the kids. These kids are assigned in  school by grade, not by credit. So that's what the data is coming from. Its by grades. But you might have like a 10th grader in there with ninth grade credit, but they still fall into the 10th grade data reporting. Thank you. Yep.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thanks for the presentation.

[15028-88] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: and vision. It's a bullying intake form, a response to intervention. Re tears. And I think you also have in their on another item, our our disciplinary. So, so you can kind of use that as, as part of a backdrop to what we're doing.
TEXT> On there just talks about the three goals we have. This is something that we do together as a school.  We come together and kind of talk about what is our aim for this year.  Those are the three things that we've been working on as well. Along the bottom talks about our pillars, just the expectations that we have in all things that we do. And that's the mission and vision which you have in front of you and kind of talks a little bit about, you know, what our thought process and how we plan on that this year is sort of  a vision of we have, as I'm here to talk about our student centers with our deans. And if I could maybe wave a magic wand, this is sort of what I would like it to look like moving forward. I know we have some grant money that's helping fund this, and we have one more year. And I know I've been asked sort of when it sunsets, what's it going to look like and what do you want. So I could talk a little bit more. And this is probably for a later conversation. But the idea is sort of this is the tiered system that I'd like to to look at moving forward.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So in your packet talks about a yellow team and it's three tiers of intervention. The yellow team is tier two. And that's really the group approach to when you

[15028-89] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: going to look like and what do you want. So I could talk a little bit more. And this is probably for a later conversation. But the idea is sort of this is the tiered system that I'd like to to look at moving forward.
TEXT> So in your packet talks about a yellow team and it's three tiers of intervention.  The yellow team is tier two. And that's really the group approach to when you have a student that you have concerns about. Any team member can initiate a yellow team meeting, meaning that we have some concerns about students. It's sort of a holistic look. We bring all the teachers together. Do you notice this? What are you noticing in class? Parents are involved, the student is involved. And this is sort of a step up from your  normal redirection in the classroom, right? Preferential seating, talking about staying after class, those type of things. We're now moving into that. We need to have a meeting. We need to look at behavioral plans. We need to kind of wrap around. And that's the first step in that process. The red team  this is the next step. And this is sort of that sort of top of the rung.  This is a little more serious when we talk about a red team. We're talking about outside resources, TLC, Turning Points, network, truancy officer, SRO, anything like that.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: We could have West Central there. And this is sort of the behavioral plan that we're using isn't working. What else do we need to do? Does the family need

[15028-93] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: this seem like conflict resolution to work with the deans and the counselors, or is this something we need to investigate? Has this risen to an investigation of the 58 that are up there, 48 had to be investigated, which means ten were conflict resolutions.
TEXT> Currently, we have ten open cases. Miss Oaks is working on that, and I just don't have the number because it's state reporting. And a lot goes into there are  appeals, right? There are extensions. And so I didn't want to put any one number yet until we're finished at the end of the year.  Just to be accurate.  Suicide rating scale are  assigned to suicide. What that is, is a student that needs to have an emergency intake with one of our counselors. We've had 96 referrals in 125 days. That's a student advocating that they need help or that's a student recognizing another student needs help. And we have to investigate. So 96 referrals and 125 days that's done by our counselors. Of that number, 19 students immediately were referred to Rapid Response Team. And what that means. There's two things. Either we have a rapid response team that comes to school,  that could take up to 2 to 3 hours waiting for someone to come that needs to do an emergency intake, or  we are discharging or asking them into West Central or to emergency at the E.R. and we work with parents on that.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So that just kind of gives you an understanding of, of what the counselors, when we're having those numbers and how that sort of works through its system. We have

[15028-95] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: that. That's definitely worth mentioning here. Title nine I just put that in there because I think it's important to understand that title nine process. We have made five inquiries into title nine investigations. Two when I made this slide were active. One more pending.
TEXT> Title nine investigations can take up to 4 or 5 months.  And so those are, those are investigations that take outside the purview of our school by a neutral party. Right.  But those are those are things when you're getting into this discrimination laws  are important to know that they are they do exist. And we are  in the middle of those investigations and they take time. Eligibility eligibility is one or more,  failing grade. So one or more of your classes failing grades for not only sports, but that is our drama club as well. Last year we had 30 students up to this point. We just finished the third quarter this year. 11. I think that's worth mentioning when you ask the question of where the gaps are and what you see that has to do with our student centers, that has to do with our Saturday supports, that has to do with our schedule. And I'll get to that.  To go from a number of 30 to 11, I think is worth mentioning as well.  Attendance. This is a small number, but  always something that we're talking about. Last year at this time, 85% of our students were present,  to when we made this slide, 88%. So at least understanding and Chris mentioned about truancy always a problem, always a concern.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: That number I'm would love to see more. But I think again worth mentioning of where we are out of district placements. Always a topic, right? Five last year, up

[15028-98] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: to build our advisory program. It is. And I'll get into a little bit more about what it is, but it covers an SL program. So I know we talked about and, Mr. Horsley brought up like, what's it, you know, what can we do?
TEXT> And these are things that we're doing that we would love to continue to do. So that's kind of what it covers. Here's what some of the programs. And we've partnered with Turning Points Network  to also increase the SL programs that we have. And that sort of the theme each month that we have. And I know everyone said to me, courage,  that's a lot of courage. So what it is, is we talk about what having courage means. And the next month we look for examples of it. So not only do we just teach what it is, but then we want to highlight what those things are. And so we do that in a way in a nice forum for students forgiveness. Again,  something that we double up on comes after the break. A lot of times after a big break,  you sort of reteach things from the beginning of the year, and forgiveness is something that we highlight a lot, especially given our students,  coming off of holidays, which are awfully tough for them. And so we try to highlight some some things for them.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: One of the things that have come out in regards to and yes, bullying and harassment obviously is a climate committee that this will be made up of students, faculty

[15028-99] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: you sort of reteach things from the beginning of the year, and forgiveness is something that we highlight a lot, especially given our students, coming off of holidays, which are awfully tough for them. And so we try to highlight some some things for them.
TEXT> One of the things that have come out in regards to and yes, bullying and harassment obviously  is a climate committee that this will be made up of students, faculty and staff. This is not student council. This is a committee of students of 15 staff that want to affect change. And so some of the things they're talking about open, real conversations with students,  and talking about different things they're going to do. So this is another thing that we have within our school that's promoting our climate and involving students, student support centers. Looking at this, just sort of a number to get an understanding.  And I'll just look across seventh grade, 70 students out of 118 are accessing the students. Now, that's 65% of the class. That's either by themselves advocating. That's  with part of a plan that is within a classroom. But 65% of our students in sixth and seventh grade and 77% in eighth grade. This kind of just reflects that information. Seventh grade Student Center. David, you're welcome to come up. Or I can keep rambling. We have to have a couple of supporting,  cast members. And Dave is the seventh grade dean in the student center. He helped put this together. So I thought, given that.
NEXT> David: So we wanted to enter a few weeks of running the student centers. We talked about what kind of data we wanted to gather. So as you can see from

[15028-100] David | Seventh-grade dean, Claremont Middle School student center — surname n | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: grade Student Center. David, you're welcome to come up. Or I can keep rambling. We have to have a couple of supporting, cast members. And Dave is the seventh grade dean in the student center. He helped put this together. So I thought, given that.
TEXT> So we wanted to  enter a few weeks of running the student centers. We talked about what kind of data we wanted to gather.  So as you can see from October to February, 65% of the seventh graders came in to the student center one or more times.  Some of them came in a lot more than one. The student center was accessed 600 times during that period, and we checked why they were there. So over that time that we saw that students who were sent out of class for disciplinary reasons decreased from 30% to 25%. Students who were self-advocacy for a break to reset and get back to class increased from 32 to 40%. Students who self advocated to come down for academic support increased from 30 to 37%, and students that I had to pull for disciplinary meetings went from 7% to 1% in that time. But I think more than the data is what the students say. So last week I was feeling sick. And so a teacher thought a  colleague thought that I was feeling stressed by the student center, so asked the students to write me like some notes to feel better. And so this is what they gave me. So I just wanted to share a couple and this is really what the student centers are accomplishing and why we need to support them.
NEXT> David: Thank you for when I was stressed. You let me go to 204 to 209 to de-stress and mentally put myself back together enough to finish the day. Thank you

[15028-101] David | Seventh-grade dean, Claremont Middle School student center — surname n | 2023-04-19
PREV> David: asked the students to write me like some notes to feel better. And so this is what they gave me. So I just wanted to share a couple and this is really what the student centers are accomplishing and why we need to support them.
TEXT> Thank you for when I was stressed. You let me go to 204 to 209 to de-stress and mentally put myself back together enough to finish the day. Thank you for coming to check on me when I was feeling really upset. I appreciate that you do that. Thank you. Thank you for letting people take breaks when they need to have a reset. And this just goes on for pages and pages. I really appreciate what you and the other deans do for the school, and what you do to make our classes better.  We're calm and we're not that hard on kids, and we're there to help them. And that's what these all had to say. So I think that's the value of the students energy.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you, thank you, thank you.

[15028-106] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: All right.
TEXT> I was asked what I'm most proud of and this is the toughest question,  More so than what I could need and what I want. I'm proud of so many things.  My staff is the first thing. I've never worked in a building where I felt so supported and seen people work so hard. My staff and their. I'm not saying it because they're behind me. Or they can hear me and see me on TV.  They they know that. And  that is absolutely something I'm very proud of. Our students,  Chris talked about how wonderful his students are. There are all our students. Right. And so we have siblings,  that are there and what they've had to endure  and what they do each day and come to us  is worth mentioning and applauding. They go through a lot and they come to school every day. And so it's worth mentioning,  that we're proud of them. Our schedule,  it's comprehensive, it's flexible. We do not use subs in our building, meaning that we do not pay for subs. We sub for each other. I sell counselors, sub teachers sub for each other.  Our schedule allows it, and there are so many things that come with that.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: But any time that I need a sub, I send an email and I have more than enough help. We do that each morning and obviously it saves money. What

[15028-115] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: the book to me is very important because again, we talked about what's our common goal as a building. And so I think it's worth mentioning that team eventually went on to win gold by the way. So it's pretty it's a pretty cool story.
TEXT> All right.  Kind of feel like I'm on saying this lap here. What I. Need I need a late bus. We need a late bus. All of our families. How many times I've talked to parents, I would. I don't have a ride. I can't, they can't stay after for help. They can't stay up for for club activity, a sport. I think we'd. Have much more involvement if we had a late bus, I understand, and Mike, we've talked about this, that it has to do with personnel and and whatever. We need a bus and it's that simple. We need to get one. And I don't care how we how we deal with, but we should be able to do it. We will have more involvement. Our kids will be off streets. Our kids will be in places that we want them to be, to be safe. If we have a late bus.  Allure is the initiative. I would love  us to have. A.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: District wide. We're going to have this many students by this time. Be this level. That's it. Put up one of those, read the thermometers, and we marked off when

[15028-116] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: do it. We will have more involvement. Our kids will be off streets. Our kids will be in places that we want them to be, to be safe. If we have a late bus. Allure is the initiative. I would love us to have. A.
TEXT> District wide. We're going to have this many students by this time. Be this level. That's it. Put up one of those, read the thermometers, and we marked off when we do it. But if we're not reading, we're not educating. We need to do it. We're doing one. This summer has been fantastic with doing that, but I would love it to be district wide so that we are talking about the books that we are reading and celebrating that, because if we're not doing it, we're not educating our kids. And I mentioned before speed behavioral program,  we need that. I need that in the building.  I've talked with Ben. He knows that again, personnel stuff. That's me, that's CMS. I think I'm done.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Very informative. Specific. Thank you. Any questions?

[15028-119] Sarah Ferland | School counselor, Claremont Middle School; Claremont resident and pare | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: Oh, yes. I'm sorry. I do have. One more. Sorry. We came together. The group.
TEXT> Hello. My name is Sarah Ferland. I'm one of the three school counselors at the Claremont Middle School. Previously, I was an FCS teacher for about eight years. I was born and raised in Claremont. I have two children that go to Disney Elementary. My parents are community members and taught in the district.  They were both educators. So when I talk to you tonight, I'm not talking to you as just an employee of saw six, but also as a community member and as a parent. I have a vested interest in the future of our community and schools. I want the Claremont Middle School to be the best it can be, not only for my children, but also for the rest of the communities children. I'm going to tell you honestly about the difference from last year to this year and has been like night and day for me personally.
NEXT> Sarah Ferland: Last year I felt like we were working in a constant state of high stress, working in a reactionary model. We were running from one fire to the next. We

[15028-120] Sarah Ferland | School counselor, Claremont Middle School; Claremont resident and pare | 2023-04-19
PREV> Sarah Ferland: be the best it can be, not only for my children, but also for the rest of the communities children. I'm going to tell you honestly about the difference from last year to this year and has been like night and day for me personally.
TEXT> Last year I felt like we were working in a constant state of high stress, working in a reactionary model. We were running from one fire to the next. We were dealing with a small percentage of the student body, and it constantly. It felt like we couldn't get to the rest of the students. We were many times unable to meet with students on our caseload, and in our heads, we knew we were giving 100%, but we became counselors because we care about kids intensely, and it was difficult to know that we're not meeting the needs of a large population of students and having to turn them away. We did not have our lunch groups last year. If we had a mental health crisis. A student was experiencing any suicidality we had to call Rapid Response Line and like Mr. Romeo said, that could take 2 to 3 hours. And that left one counselor with approximately 400 students. Not to mention, you know, if we as adults, you know, and presumably were well-adjusted or feeling the stress, we can assume that the student body is feeling that a very intense level.
NEXT> Sarah Ferland: And, you know, I kind of like to imagine, like, dominoes, you know, we set up this amazing design in our school, just like kind of dominoes. And, you know,

[15028-121] Sarah Ferland | School counselor, Claremont Middle School; Claremont resident and pare | 2023-04-19
PREV> Sarah Ferland: to 3 hours. And that left one counselor with approximately 400 students. Not to mention, you know, if we as adults, you know, and presumably were well-adjusted or feeling the stress, we can assume that the student body is feeling that a very intense level.
TEXT> And, you know, I kind of like to imagine, like, dominoes, you know, we set up this amazing design in our school, just like kind of dominoes. And, you know, Frank is an amazing and dynamic thinker, and we're all excited and to implement all these things. But when behaviors occur in a high trauma population, the stress and not enough support means the dominoes start to fall. And not with not enough people to work preventative or to intervene and minimize the domino effect. Before you know it, the system is overloaded. So in middle school is hard enough time to navigate as it is,  you know, interpersonal issues, growing independence, the three elementaries funneling together for the first time.  We're still feeling the effects of Covid. If you add to it, not enough support supports it. Just it it reacts if the dominoes can fall very quickly. This year is the first year of having a dean, a campus aide, and a counselor at each grade level. We are now able to work with greater frequency, preventative rather than reactively.  Unlike last year, we're not constantly having to react to behavioral issues that have escalated because there was no support for the students or no spot for the students to regulate.
NEXT> Sarah Ferland: Now they have those student centers. They can connect with the support of adults. They can develop a plan and skills to be successful for the rest of their day.

[15028-122] Sarah Ferland | School counselor, Claremont Middle School; Claremont resident and pare | 2023-04-19
PREV> Sarah Ferland: level. We are now able to work with greater frequency, preventative rather than reactively. Unlike last year, we're not constantly having to react to behavioral issues that have escalated because there was no support for the students or no spot for the students to regulate.
TEXT> Now they have those student centers. They can connect with the support of adults. They can develop a plan and skills to be successful for the rest of their day. Last year, the students would escalate and so de-escalate because no one could get them quick enough, and that would cause other students to escalate as well. This year, because of the additional staff, we can meet with students on our caseloads and see a much larger percentage of students. In the last year, I can discuss emotional academic matters at a much greater frequency. We have lunch groups which greatly increase our relationships with the students. If somebody is needing to call Mental Health Crisis Line, we have two other counselors that can are available for the rest of the student body. We have lowered our caseload of students from 176 students per counselor to 117, 117 per counselor. I'm now able to teach a sixth grade social emotional class that will help change the school community by helping students become aware of their feelings, their responses to stress, effective coping skills, the effects of being kind on for themselves and for the school community. When a student is getting close to touching that domino, we can now intervene before they've touched them.
NEXT> Sarah Ferland: And if they start falling, we have more staff to intervene to minimize the fall. I can only imagine how much more effective these rooms and positions will become each

[15028-123] Sarah Ferland | School counselor, Claremont Middle School; Claremont resident and pare | 2023-04-19
PREV> Sarah Ferland: helping students become aware of their feelings, their responses to stress, effective coping skills, the effects of being kind on for themselves and for the school community. When a student is getting close to touching that domino, we can now intervene before they've touched them.
TEXT> And if they start falling, we have more staff to intervene to minimize the fall. I can only imagine how much more effective these rooms and positions will become each year, as we reflect and improve upon them. Sorry with these my notes. I know I can feel the stress lifting this year, and I'm sure the students can feel that as well. The investment in these positions, I feel, is integral to the success of the building, and the school system needs these supports in order to help the children live their best lives academically, socially, emotionally, and in order to retain staff.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone have any questions? Questions?

[15028-127] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: I just had a question about the academic deans. What are their special skills or qualifications? What do you what do you have to bring to the table to be an academic team?
TEXT> Sure. So two of our academic academic deans currently were former teachers in the building. So,  they were actually teachers,  Ela and social studies.  The third one that we have, we are very lucky to have you study who is in the back  who actually ran something very similar in Lebanon schools. And so her qualifications were that she actually had had run a program very similar,  to this. And so she's been a complete asset. So what we're looking for students that have worked within the population, understand the growth mindset of a middle schooler, have the  opportunity for de-escalation. A lot of them do safety care training. Actually, all of us do safety training and one another. And that's not only is it the it's not really the physical aspect of it, but it's more about the de-escalation process. So the qualifications we're looking for are highlighted. Sort of it doesn't necessarily have to be a teacher.  Because as we see that there are so many people within our building that are not specific classroom teachers that are supporting the program and the welfare of our students.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And just one more question about trying to differentiate between the student support centers and the academic.

[15028-130] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair — elected chair 4/5/23; arrives after the | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: Same thing there. Interchangeable. Correct.
TEXT> And so when you just clarify when you say access, accessing,  is that most of these kids are coming on their own, correct.  Or are they being directed by.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So. So the way that it works, they have their own they actually have their own classroom. Each center is their own classroom. Students can access on their own. They

[15028-188] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-19
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Oh, well, I thought you were.
TEXT> I'm just southern, so it covers all the states. It's fine. All of our principles did an excellent job. I know Melissa Lewis is here today, so I'll pick on her. She did a really great book giveaway. Where they. Is that correct? What you called it. What was the name of that? Where the kids opened up the bags of books?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: We did. We did it. We launched a book.

[15028-195] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: I want to see the pictures.
TEXT> I do love that idea, but I. I have my eyes set on a  larger prize for our district initiative, and I would like to see a certain percentage of our students by a certain year that are proficient in their reading skills, because we have the teachers that are able to do that. And I think a Book Character Day  would be a wonderful addition to that initiative. But I have my I stand a little higher than that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Okay. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Okay. Now we're going to move on to seven, which is appointing members and chairs for our school board subcommittees. And

[15028-315] Unidentified | School Board member raising an item under new business — by eliminatio | 2023-04-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Appreciate it. Thank you Andy.
TEXT> I have I have an item under new business. And maybe it's something for the Capital Improvement Committee to take a look at. When I visited, their fencing around their school yard is not totally enclosed. There's an opening where it looks like there may have been. An opening that had been fenced in that goes right from the parking lot into the backyard, where the children are having recess. And then there's another opening on the other side of the building that's right to the street. And in today's times, I think it's important for safety reasons, that we have an enclosed school yard. So perhaps this  capital improvement committee can look at that and recommend funding the completion of that fence and closing it.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: I'll check it out.

[15058-4] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center; chair of the C | 2023-05-03
PREV> Alex Herzog: stakeholders in the community, and we're still working on that. But that's going to be on Tuesday night, and we're just going to be kicking off the entire consulting and what we're going to be looking, and that that'll be the start of that, number.
TEXT> On the third thing I want to talk about, we are our machine tool program has two things going on right now. We have a partnership with NASA hunch, which makes  parts for NASA, which eventually some of these parts will be in space, that these our kids, our local kids are making these parts. And it's a great opportunity for them to get that experience. Secondly, our halfway through our adult ed machine tool class, we have about eight students  that have  are currently sticking to it and finishing up. And three of those already got job offer. So we're very excited about that opportunity. That partnership and that partnership is with the Sullivan County. They've provided the funding for the teacher and materials for that program. Summer camp that's upcoming. We've got the week right after 4th of July. We have three camps planned.  Culinary. We closed that one today. We open that for 20 students. And that's full. We have building with wood and robotics and engineering. These are from July 10th through the 14th, 830 to 1230 daily.  It's a $25 to do the program.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: However, if you're in need and we'll figure out a way to get a scholarship to get that covered tomorrow, we're lucky we've got to be coming in. We've worked

[15058-5] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center; chair of the C | 2023-05-03
PREV> Alex Herzog: camps planned. Culinary. We closed that one today. We open that for 20 students. And that's full. We have building with wood and robotics and engineering. These are from July 10th through the 14th, 830 to 1230 daily. It's a $25 to do the program.
TEXT> However, if you're in need and we'll figure out a way to get a scholarship to get that covered tomorrow, we're lucky we've got to be coming in. We've worked with CPI on our machine tool class, our plumbing class. They vet our candidates. They're coming in doing interview skills and soft skills for our students here at the Tech Center for level one and two, and trying to get them ready for next week's career technical career day, which is next Thursday, and you're all invited to attend. We have about 20 regional employers coming. They'll be setting up booths if it's nice outside, which I'm hoping it's going to be, it'll be outside. We have a ton of sponsors. Hannaford, Sullivan County,  liberal beef, North Country Smokehouse. They're providing lunch. So I just wanted to let you invite you all next Thursday from 11 to 1. We will be here. It'll be mostly for juniors and seniors at the high school, and it's an opportunity for them to find summer jobs or as if they're graduating some employment after. So thank you for your time.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And if there's anyone else that would like to speak on a non agenda item, please state your name and ward.

[15058-26] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School — presents the American Sign Language p | 2023-05-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there any more questions for Superintendent Tempesta? No. So moving on. We're going to go to the presentation from Principal Christopher Pratt concerning adding American Sign Language to the programs of studies at Stevens High School.
TEXT> Good evening everybody. Yeah. So. So tonight what? I would like to propose to the school board tonight. Today, full time American Sign Language class, Stevens High School as the second language. This class would offer a level one and two class, as well as a running start ASL class at the high school. In addition, after sending out a poll to the students, we currently have about 88 students interested in the class. If we if approved, the two languages offered at Stevens High School would be Spanish in American Sign Language. I'd now like to address the importance of the opportunities that having an asset class at Stephen High School will bring to the students. ASL level one and two classes offering ASL level one and two classes at Stevens High School would provide students with a more comprehensive ASL education. These classes will build on the skills in the knowledge gained in the introductory classes. The students would be able to progress to a higher level of proficiency in ASL, and additionally, offering these classes would allow students to earn high school credit for each level of the ASL. Completed a running start class. Adding a running start a ASL class would allow students to earn college credit while still in high school.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: This can save students time and money when they eventually attend college. Students who complete the running start just like all the others we have. Class could be better prepared

[15058-30] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; retired school administrator | 2023-05-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: languages the Spanish class is offering right now. We could we could also offer this class as a, you know, to the special ed and life skills as well. So it would follow the same format as we offer the current Spanish classes we have.
TEXT> So, so kids should just they should have their schedules completed, schedules in hand by now. Correct?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: No, not as of right now.

[15058-48] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School — presents the American Sign Language p | 2023-05-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: if offering ASL would encourage more students to sign up for a language, because there are students who struggle learning a second language, and this is a very different opportunity. So perhaps maybe more students would even sign up for a language because it's different.
TEXT> It opens the door for students who are visual learners. Yes.  And there's they don't just not students on IEPs and life ed, it's in general, we're tapping into another  learning style that kids have. And sometimes, you know, without  music, you know, they they really sometimes don't do well in or just, you know, never  the foreign language is are very tough for, for students who struggle and are,  visual, who are not, who need the visuals behind it. And that's exactly what ASL could, could offer. But I would I would agree it would increase more student interest in a language that kids typically would not sign up for. Okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So how are we paying? How would you pay for this? Is it in the budget?

[15058-73] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: I don't have the energy to try to figure it out for myself. That's what I want.
TEXT> Yeah. And I'll, I'll, I'll point to the differences between this one and the one we received. There are two, two minor math errors that I had my expert assistants  help me with. Mrs.. Sprague and Mrs.. Yes. So again, just for the benefit to some of our newer board members or some things here that, you know, that others have have heard many times before. But I thought that, you know, since this is the first sort of state of the Union, if you will, from, from I, when I hit on some sort of key concepts around special education so that, so that everyone understands, you know, the lens that we're taking a look at this from one of the, one of the first key concepts that often gets missed is that general editor students,  that are different from special ed students. Are there two separate silos? And really, the concept to take care is that special education students are general education students. First. They don't live in separate classrooms. Typically they're integrated into the into the classrooms, aside from our life skills programs. And so when you walk through the school and you walk into a classroom like Arlene, like you've done recently, when you walk into a classroom of 18 kids, there may be 6 or 7 of those kids that are special needs.
NEXT> Ben Nester: But you wouldn't know that unless you were to dig into their files. The second concept that's I felt very important to address is that, you know, when you improved

[15058-74] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: life skills programs. And so when you walk through the school and you walk into a classroom like Arlene, like you've done recently, when you walk into a classroom of 18 kids, there may be 6 or 7 of those kids that are special needs.
TEXT> But you wouldn't know that unless you were to dig into their files. The second concept that's I felt very important to address is that,  you know, when you improved curriculum and instructional practices in the district, you bring up the standard, you increase the skills for all students. And it's a little corny, but the rising tide lifts all boats. And that's absolutely true when you're when you're looking at educating students whether they have a disability or otherwise.  Just just to put a plug in here for the curriculum and instructional work that we're doing, the single most important thing that we can do to improve, improve outcomes for our special education students is to implement, with fidelity well established curriculum and effective instructional practices. And so that's why I know we're all very excited with the work that Mr. Kosky and Stephanie and Heather are doing in the in the curriculum department. And I just want to say this again, this is the most important thing we can do to improve outcomes for our for our special education students.  This is just a quick picture of what I do all day, especially for our new board members. Special education is a large chunk of the majority of the percentage of my work. I also oversee 504  Sol students and our one teacher.  Social work. All court involved cases do funnel through my office. So we have
NEXT> Ben Nester: Many court involved students. These are students in foster placement, students that are going through the court system because of delinquent behavior, truancy and otherwise. And so all court documents

[15058-75] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: especially for our new board members. Special education is a large chunk of the majority of the percentage of my work. I also oversee 504 Sol students and our one teacher. Social work. All court involved cases do funnel through my office. So we have
TEXT> Many court involved students. These are students in foster placement, students that are going through the court system because of delinquent behavior, truancy and otherwise. And so all court documents and hearing notices funnel through my office, and then my assistants then distribute the court hearings and court documents out to the schools so that we can be sure that the school representatives get to the hearings and aren't found in contempt of court. So another big role that that is kind of behind the scenes.  Also, early childhood is in my purview. And in Medicaid, we have Heidi Sprague or Medicaid clerk, and  we work you know, I support her and efforts to seek reimbursement from the state for Medicaid. So this is how I've structured the presentation in terms of where we are now, where we're going, and then, more importantly, the action steps that we intend to take to get there. This slide is really for our new board members. This was presented in various forms by Mr. Kosky and his team earlier this year.  That if you look at this. All right. The. The the laser doesn't show up on the screen. Jeff, can you look at that? So  this slide over here is just a snapshot of our reading diagnostic that was given the winter of 2023. And this is just for elementary level students. You can see that 80% of our students are below average, below grade level average.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And then roughly 20% of our students are either average or above average. And this is a striking statistic to look at. And it's something that we're all familiar with.

[15058-76] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: at that? So this slide over here is just a snapshot of our reading diagnostic that was given the winter of 2023. And this is just for elementary level students. You can see that 80% of our students are below average, below grade level average.
TEXT> And then roughly 20% of our students are either average or above average. And this is a striking statistic to look at. And it's something that we're all familiar with. So I don't want to I don't want to dwell on it. What we're typically looking for, if you consider the pyramid model, for those that are familiar with that, you're looking at 80% of your students being average and then  another 15% at the tier two level needing some level of intervention, and then an additional 5% needing very intense intervention in order to close the learning gap. So this is sort of the context or the frame with which we're operating. And I felt that was important to to highlight  in regards to our rate of these are percentage of students in our district that are identified. Our current rate is 26%.  This was one of the corrections from the earlier slide. I had it at 27%. So I was off by one. The the and right now, based on my, you know, my time here in the district in five years as director, this is a record high for Claremont at 26%. There's a historical average of 23 to 25% identification rate in the district. I was able to pull  some of our neighbors.  One of the other statistics that came in late is the Franklin statistic.
NEXT> Ben Nester: This was not in your original presentation. I heard from her yesterday. Franklin is unbelievably at 36% of rate. Newport 27, Claremont at 26, unity 24, fall mountain 22. And

[15058-83] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: know every one of those acronyms. So contributing factors to consider our, you know, certainly our low socioeconomic status, the lead poisoning and in cognitive development. You know, Claremont was one of the eight cities in New Hampshire identified as at risk for lead poisoning.
TEXT> There was a lot of press about that a few years ago.  Also, the the ones that I've underlined are things that are things that we can take action on. We have the ability to act on these. So  the other two at the bottom, we have a high incidence of adverse childhood experiences, Aces. For those that are familiar with that tool. And then certainly Covid has contributed some, but not to the extent that we thought it would in terms of our referrals. The two items that are underlined.  The first one is a lack of systematic, district wide response to intervention programing. And we'll talk about that a little bit later. That's now referred to as MTS or multi-tiered systems of support. And then also their  override of students. And that's something I'll address here in a moment to,  there were some questions about staffing. So I just put together an overview. This is a graphic that shows you the number of paraprofessionals that were employed in the district. There were a massive number of paraprofessionals back in 2015, and that's we've slowly chipped away at that in an effort to be fiscally responsible while also meeting students needs, in  right around this time period we did when we were doing program building at the elementary level, the behavior program, we and the autism program at bluff, we added nine behavior specialists.
NEXT> Ben Nester: These were the letters of agreement that we've talked about quite a bit in the recent years. And so the red line is the addition of those nine behavior specialists.

[15058-84] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: in an effort to be fiscally responsible while also meeting students needs, in right around this time period we did when we were doing program building at the elementary level, the behavior program, we and the autism program at bluff, we added nine behavior specialists.
TEXT> These were the letters of agreement that we've talked about quite a bit in the recent years. And so the red line is the addition of those nine behavior specialists.  So that just, you know, gives you a picture of, you know, what the what the trend looks like with the addition of those positions. Special educators, I went back as far as 2017. We had 25, and now we're at 27 special educators. So we added two. That was done by, you know, creating the Elementary Behavior program. There's been some shuffling around over the years since I've been here. When I came on in 1819, as an example, bluff had  a third special educator historically. And three, we felt like at the time that we could reduce that to two and still meet students needs. So we did as a as a riff reduction, a workforce. And we've made some other shifts as well. I believe they believe reduced. I believe we reduced one position at Disney Art as well in 1920. Related services.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. Please. About that particular slide, the special educators, those are teachers in self-contained classrooms and resource teachers. Correct any other category under special educators or is that it?

[15058-89] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: five years, it has been a bit more challenging to find staff in the last two years post Covid, but we've we've typically see a turnover rate of about 30% in Claremont. And that's pretty pretty, pretty static since I've been here from 1819 on.
TEXT> One of the things to mention anecdotally, from my perspective, the prime driver for turnover is the exigent demands of the student population.  It's  the students are tough to work with. So there is we do see a high rate of turnover for those that work with challenging students. A couple of things that are positive here. So with with some of the staffing reductions we've seen in my tenure and, and what I believe to be an increased student need, we have been able to maintain compliance with the New Hampshire Department of Education. This is something that that I have the pleasure of doing every year. That often doesn't reach the board level because it is quite,  tedious.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Using pleasure. Yes, yes.

[15058-92] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: pleased when I call them to talk specifically about compliance issues, because they can get very granular in language heavy in the way the Department of Ed likes to see IEPs written. But everyone has done a great job in keeping us in good standing.
TEXT> Outer district overview. This is a. Biggie. From a financial point of view, as well as of operating and building in an orderly fashion point of view. You can see the history here of  students that have been placed out of district. The a couple comments on the graph. So when we created the Elementary Behavior program in 1819, we saw a reduction in students that were placed out of district historically. Or when I came on, there were 10 to 12 students at the elementary level in and out of district. And when we built the behavior program,  we were able to bring, ultimately, we were able to bring all of those students back in district and meet their needs here. So right now,  let me just skip to one slide. So this is what it looked like when we built the program. We put the program in at. 1819. And then we got to a point where we did not outpace any students during this time. Partially this was because of Covid. But at this point, we only have one elementary student in and out placement, which is a, you know, a huge success and a credit to the board for, you know, encouraging us to move forward with this behavior program.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Going back to the slide in this is what's interesting to me is that we saw a big reduction on our district, students in costs at the elementary school level,

[15058-93] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: this was because of Covid. But at this point, we only have one elementary student in and out placement, which is a, you know, a huge success and a credit to the board for, you know, encouraging us to move forward with this behavior program.
TEXT> Going back to the slide in this is what's interesting to me is that we saw a big reduction on our district, students in costs at the elementary school level, right around the same time we saw the dismantling of the high school and middle school behavior programing, and thus we saw significant uptick in our district placement at those levels, resulting in a bit of a wash in terms of students out of district. So we have a plan and I will present that shortly. So where are we going? These are our goals. These are my goals. Number one, I want to reduce our identification rates by 5%, bringing us down to 21%  over two years. That may be a little bit aggressive.  I also want to improve student outcomes. Of course, for our at risk students, that's always the goal. This goal is going to be crucial that we bring in a very clear and robust, multi-tiered systems of support. These are and we'll get into that in a minute. Mr.. Is going to help me speak about that. We also want to reduce our reliance on other district providers. We want to improve outcomes for all of our students, our special ed students, by offering additional training to our paraprofessionals. We want to increase eligibility, oversight and supervision at the building level. I can't be everywhere at once, so how are we going to get there?  Mike, do you mind chatting a little bit about this?
NEXT> Mike Koski: So in Ben's first slide.

[15058-99] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah. It's Can we table that until we get because there are. Two. Documents at the end of the slide show that I think will help answer that more clearly. Questions. All right.
TEXT> So  Ben's one of Ben's first slides that special ed students are not separate from general students. It's all blended together. And this is that area of overlap. So we think we can reduce our special education identification by improving our  let's call it known as tier one or classroom first intervention instruction. And is that becomes a strengthened, consistently applied system across the district. We expect that that we will see a reduction. Right now our pyramid is completely inverted where 80% are below grade level and 20% are on grade level. We need to reverse that. So, the tier one or universal,  interventions are with classroom teachers. That's takes care of about 80% of our students. Then we have small group instruction again in the classroom by the classroom teachers. And then we do pull out intensive. And that's a tier three. And those are our title teachers. But those students are still receiving the classroom interventions and the small group interventions. And it's just a continued increase in tens of interventions.  And so we expect to see those numbers drop. And our goal would be that 5% mark for for special identification.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah. Thanks, Mike. Sure. It's something that Stephanie and Mike and I have talked about and had several committee meetings on this year. And we've done some work with some

[15058-100] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Mike Koski: But those students are still receiving the classroom interventions and the small group interventions. And it's just a continued increase in tens of interventions. And so we expect to see those numbers drop. And our goal would be that 5% mark for for special identification.
TEXT> Yeah. Thanks, Mike. Sure. It's something that Stephanie and Mike and I have talked about and had several committee meetings on this year. And we've done some work with some of our building level, building level folks on this.  You know, it is a multi year project, but it's but it's important if we want to move the needle on student achievement and on the rate. Yeah. Stephanie was supposed to be here to speak tonight, but she's gallivanting around probably somewhere.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I don't know if this is going to be covered later. Are there opportunities being built in for collaboration between the regular educator and the special educator for instructional practices

[15058-104] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Mike Koski: as we used in the tier one and two levels, when in fact, if those aren't working, we should be using a different program. And so we've identified those those overlaps and places where we weren't being effective. And we've started to make those changes.
TEXT> Move on. Good. Goal number two is to reduce our reliance on our district providers.  This is just a quick graphic of, what a high school level program could look like next year. Should we should this be blessed and we can move forward?  Chris Pratt and I have talked about this quite a bit already, as well as Frank Romeo. As one example, we could look at the ombudsman model that was that was here for many years, or the Owls program  that was  in the district  when I was assistant principal at the at the high school,  a staffing structure. Just as an example, you would have a lead teacher, two pair educators. And we believe that we could serve up to ten, 2 to 10 students at least in the first year. We'd be looking at the a, you know, morning session in an afternoon session, very similar to the to the ombudsman program that Frank certainly familiar with. As terms of special ed support for these students,  we would this would be no additional staff required. I believe we had the capacity to push in,  those services we have the capacity to push in social work is needed. And then restorative justice, which Chris has been talking about quite a bit, that could be part of the part of that as well.  So.
NEXT> Ben Nester: You know, if if we are to just to put it bluntly, you know, the out of district budget is not tenable the way it is. If the trend continues,

[15058-105] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: we had the capacity to push in, those services we have the capacity to push in social work is needed. And then restorative justice, which Chris has been talking about quite a bit, that could be part of the part of that as well. So.
TEXT> You know, if if we are to just to put it bluntly, you know, the out of district budget is not tenable the way it is. If the trend continues, it's it's not going to be physically manageable for Claremont. It's it's a necessity that we put in middle and high school level level programing. Number three paraprofessionals.  We have 65 paraprofessionals  currently or right around that.  These are the folks that are working with our kids in the classroom in the field every day. We have a para a summer para academy planned for this summer in August.  It's a three day, four hour a day  total of 12 hours. Academy, our target  audience is going to be our beginning and new paraprofessionals. I had a meeting already with a regional consultant that will be doing this for a reasonable price. And a survey has gone out to all of our pairs  with some of the details and also looking at interest.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just a quick, quick comment. Having having observed probably hundreds of teachers and probably dozens of those teachers with a para in the classroom with them, it was very rare

[15058-142] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: Great detail, and I don't want to spend. Too much time on. This. But, the the first question that the team will answer in this particular instance as the student been found by a qualified examiner, and this would be a school. Psychologist by law.
TEXT> To have a condition with constitutes emotional disturbance. And so the school psychologist in this case would have conducted an eye and IQ test.  They would have conducted several types of social emotional evaluations. And then those are all standardized measures. And then there's a report that would indicate whether their the child has a condition which constitutes an emotional disturbance. If the answer is no. Then the process stops and the child is not eligible. If the answer is yes, then you go to you go to the number two. And these are different areas. And again this is like a two hour presentation and of itself. So I won't beat it with a dead horse. But if the board was interested in hearing directly from some of our psychologists on this process, I'm happy to bring them in on a future agenda item. A couple other things to keep in mind about eligibility is the child may have a condition, right? They may have a diagnosis of bipolar. Disorder or. Disruptive mood disorder. But if that disorder is diagnosed by a doctor, in that case, or a psychiatrist does not affect the child's educational performance, they do not have an educational disability. There is a distinction between an educational disability and a disability as defined by  the DSM. As an example, those are two very different things. So a child, the process may stop right there.
NEXT> Ben Nester: The other question, which is another prong of eligibility, is if the child does have an emotional disturbance, does the child need special education? Sometimes the answer is no. Often

[15058-170] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; retired school administrator | 2023-05-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay.
TEXT> All right. I've got a couple of questions. So I noticed that you deal with with the courts, and that's because I did that as well. So I know that every time a kid becomes court involved, it's an automatic special referral. Yeah. So,  and how often are those kids identified as special ed?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Not very often since I've been here. Yeah.

[15058-190] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: that that's really a probably one of the most significant statistics that we had in this whole presentation is, is the special ed rate at this Naht. I noticed that 60% of early childhood kids are special ed. Yeah. How many kids is that? Oh.
TEXT> I don't know exactly where we're at. 68, 70 I think last I looked, but right now we're we're over in terms of a rate, we should be at 50%. And some of those students are still in process. So it might be a little bit elevated.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But so what's their main cause? I always think back to my experiences with my own kids. And my son never crawled. And he's a computer engineer now and he

[15058-191] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; retired school administrator | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: know exactly where we're at. 68, 70 I think last I looked, but right now we're we're over in terms of a rate, we should be at 50%. And some of those students are still in process. So it might be a little bit elevated.
TEXT> But so what's their main cause? I always think back to my experiences with my own kids. And my son never crawled. And he's a computer engineer now and he never crawled. He went straight from rocking on his stomach and his walker to walking. And I'm sure that if we'd had him in preschool, he would have been identified. And I remember talking to my physician, Doctor Barnes, at the time, and he he always described developmentally, little kids think of it as a speedometer. Don't think of it as a precise point. And so with Covid and with everything else, I just wonder how much I would love to know how many of these kids outgrow whatever it is. Because, for example, if they're being identified with speech, kids that age don't have teeth, you know, or they have spotty teeth. And so for identifying them for speech, you know, I just wonder what it just seems like a lot.
NEXT> Ben Nester: I mean.

[15058-202] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23; retired elementary pri | 2023-05-03
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: 60%.
TEXT> 60% of the kids in the pre-K. Well, that's that's how and why that was set up. It was to identify students early to give them a better start when they enter kindergarten, am I correct?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah. That's the that's the concept in.

[15058-204] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23; retired elementary pri | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah. That's the that's the concept in.
TEXT> 60% of our students in the pre-K are already identified, mostly developmentally delayed, I would think.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah. And here's here's the distinction for you, Arlene, as a new board member, the current model on file with the state is an early childhood model, which requires 50%

[15058-205] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: 60% of our students in the pre-K are already identified, mostly developmentally delayed, I would think.
TEXT> Yeah. And here's here's the distinction for you, Arlene, as a new board member, the current model on file with the state is an early childhood model, which requires 50% of the students be typically developing in 50%. So we're a little inflated in regards to the special ed students in the program.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Right. And that's important for, role models for, for early childhood students who need to see like peers who are something they can look at and model. Sure. My other

[15058-221] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: Right. So if. This. If a student, isn't in like maples district, but their student requires the program, they go to Maple this way. Okay.
TEXT> Yeah, yeah. What's. So while we're on this, we have two types of life.  Self-contained programs in the district. Students that are life skills. These are students that are likely going to need a great deal of support their entire adult lives. They're not going to be diploma earners. Right. So we have a continuum there. We have the elementary level, we have middle school, and then we high school. We have a continuum services for all those students, for our students that have emotional disturbance and significant behavior problems. We have an elementary level and nothing when they hit middle and high. And that's where the gap is. That's what we need to. That's what we need to fix. Any questions further?
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: One, it's I don't think it was on any of the slides, but how often would you say or like what proportion of students are impacted by the lack of

[15058-222] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; Policy Subcommittee chair | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: students, for our students that have emotional disturbance and significant behavior problems. We have an elementary level and nothing when they hit middle and high. And that's where the gap is. That's what we need to. That's what we need to fix. Any questions further?
TEXT> One, it's I don't think it was on any of the slides, but  how often would you say or like what proportion of students are impacted by the lack of substitute teachers, specifically the situation where parents have to step in and serve as subs and therefore step away from their substitute teacher duties? How often do you say, would you say that impacts students who would otherwise have or need to have a para in the class with them?
NEXT> Ben Nester: That's a tough question. Daily, if I'm being honest.

[15058-263] Andy | Ward 3 resident presenting the NH School Funding Fairness Project; SRV | 2023-05-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah.
TEXT> That'd be great. That's okay. Yeah. I need to state my name. Yes we do. Andy. Ward three. Thanks. So as people who live. Work and have connections to Claremont, many of us are likely aware of the challenges,  with school funding and property taxes here. It's an issue that impacts our entire community and many others. And multiple. Court cases of found over the years that New Hampshire education funding is a responsibility that lies with the state, and in its current form, it's inequitable, does not meet constitutional mandates, and presents unfair funding challenges to students, to schools and to taxpayers alike. It affects our budgets, the programs and the staff we'd like to fund. Some of which we've heard about tonight from Mr. Nestor. And it affects outcomes we hope to achieve for our kids. The courts have handed the issue over and over to the legislature for solutions, and despite the findings, the cost of adequacy has not been defined. And for years, the resources that the state provides to local communities like Claremont have fallen far short of what schools actually cost to fund.
NEXT> Andy: The difference is down shifted and made up through local property taxes, and that situation creates significant difficulties for towns with lower property values, whose residents desiring comparable outcomes have

[15058-264] Andy | Ward 3 resident presenting the NH School Funding Fairness Project; SRV | 2023-05-03
PREV> Andy: over and over to the legislature for solutions, and despite the findings, the cost of adequacy has not been defined. And for years, the resources that the state provides to local communities like Claremont have fallen far short of what schools actually cost to fund.
TEXT> The difference is down shifted and made up through local property taxes, and that situation creates significant difficulties for towns with lower property values, whose residents desiring comparable outcomes have to rely on disproportionately high local property taxes to fund adequate school budgets that are often already cut to the bone. And those discussions can be quite painful at deliberative sessions that we've all been a part of. So that's dynamic is what the courts have identified as a problem. It's still a problem despite even a very thorough report delivered to the state in 2020 by a commission that was convened to study it and proposed solutions. They did, and those findings have not been meaningfully explored. And so the New Hampshire School Funding Fairness Project, which is a nonprofit, nonpartisan advocacy group, works around New Hampshire to raise awareness of the challenges with New Hampshire school funding and advocates for discussions among the public and among legislators that could lead to a more equitable system. They will be presenting in Claremont on May 25th at 6:30 p.m. at the Claremont Savings Bank Community Center. It'll be a Claremont specific discussion, and attendees will have the opportunity to learn how school funding works, how that impacts students and taxpayers and our communities, and what can be done to facilitate improvement. I hope people here listening and at home will consider attending.
NEXT> Andy: And tonight I'm hoping that in an effort to help with the promotion within our community, that the Claremont School Board as a body, would join many other New Hampshire

[15058-289] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; the board's representative on the Capit | 2023-05-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: recent committee meetings. And we also had chatted last meeting about coming up with a schedule of when folks are going to be meeting and what the chairs were actually looking to accomplish this year. Bonnie, as a representative of the Capital Improvement Committee improvements.
TEXT> So we have a meeting on May 18th, which is Thursday at 3:00 at the  superintendent's office with Mr. Tempesta. And Mr. Holt will be joining us, and Whitney skilling and myself will be there just to do an update on what we've done so far. What else do we need to do? We still have two more schools to visit, and they are  the middle school, the  Maple Avenue School. So I'm hoping we can get in there the end of May. And then in June, Stevens High I thought that might be better when it's the kids are done because it's such a big building. That we can update. Yeah. There's two. Yeah. So anyway, that's. We'll see where we're at. Thank you. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The budget subcommittee, that's essentially Frank, myself and Mr. Horsey. We did. Frank and I were able to meet with, coming up with the. Name.

[15123-10] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair | 2023-06-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I'm not sure. Okay. Yeah. Thanks.
TEXT> That's okay. In the absence of objection, we will approve all items on the consent agenda. Now we're opening the floor to citizens comments. Are there any citizens in the audience this evening? Nope. So we'll just move right forward to the student representatives report. My assumption that Hanna is Hanna patron is probably at  night. Class night. So is not attending. We are going to move into a public hearing and a presentation by Shauna Plant  regarding a $5,500 donation from the Dick's Sporting Goods Foundation. We do need  a vote to enter the public hearing. And then would you please remind has to be a roll call. We need to do we have to do a roll call.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Do we need to. Do you mean.

[15123-74] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated on the recording (el | 2023-06-07
PREV> Unidentified: Given me saved by the Bell vibes.
TEXT> That's what I thought.  That's why I picked it. So I'm glad you like it. So for the 60 something page document that was sent to you, I hope you can see that that was a labor of love. I'm very excited about this curriculum framework. This team of  educators worked very hard, and I'm very proud of their efforts that they put into this. When you think of curriculum framework, I think,  Mike and I have had several conversations about this. You think we can just put it together? It's the standards. It's very complicated. It involves a lot of different moving pieces. And without educators that step up and lead like this group here, you can't get it done. I can come with ideas from the different states that I've been in, but if we don't meet teachers where they're at and build a framework that sustainable for our students and our community, it's not going to work out. So I just want to introduce them. We have our K-5 literacy advisory board with Sean Herzog, Kayla Young, Sheila Lewis, Ali Knoll, Amber Hammond and Lisa Holtz. So  they come from all three different elementary schools and they all teach a different grade level, the only grade level. We don't have representatives kindergarten, but Sean Herzog works closely with kindergarten, so she was able to fill in there. And our 612 Ela advisory board is  in the top there. The it's not a selfie. Would it be a.
NEXT> Unidentified: I see.

[15123-77] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated on the recording (el | 2023-06-07
PREV> Stephanie: Or we can build something that last and that last when you bring in stakeholders. So we have the advisory boards, which is a team of educators that we're all like minded and wanted to have a research based best practice framework for our district.
TEXT> The process we went through was we looked at the standards. What does New Hampshire require of us? And  I don't know if you're familiar with this, but with the Common Core, federally, states can change. Is it 10 to 20% of the standards and move them around where they would like them to be?  So we looked at the standards and we looked at the research. I know you're familiar with the term science of reading. It's a,  one of those hot topic key terms that everybody wants to throw around. But it's very serious. This research has been around for many years. Many of the books that we're looking at are from the 80s, the 70s.  The research has been around, but unfortunately, if you've  read sold a story or you've listened to sold a story, you'll you'll read about how we were fold as educators. I mean, we're smart, educated people, and we were taken down the wrong road just because someone thought they had an idea that was going to make them a lot of money. And that's not been in the best interest of our students. And so I applaud the teachers that were able to make that shift. I, I taught, you know, Lucy Calkins, I taught guided reading.
NEXT> Stephanie: I used fonts and Pinnell until I knew a better way. And those materials aren't awful. It's not that there's not pieces of them that we can't use, but it's

[15123-78] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated on the recording (el | 2023-06-07
PREV> Stephanie: that was going to make them a lot of money. And that's not been in the best interest of our students. And so I applaud the teachers that were able to make that shift. I, I taught, you know, Lucy Calkins, I taught guided reading.
TEXT> I used fonts and Pinnell until I knew a better way. And those materials aren't awful. It's not that there's not pieces of them that we can't use, but it's not the best way to teach children how to read. And that's what we have to get after. So and we've presented with, you know, several times on on that research. And then we looked at the data, where's where are our students at? We have to meet them where they're currently performing to bring in materials that are going to help them get to where they need to be. And that's brought us to the high quality materials. We did a presentation on that a few weeks ago, maybe a month ago. And then professional development, you know, it's not just the materials, it's not just the standards. Do our teachers have what they need to be able to execute the plan? And so that's probably to me the most important piece and letters is a huge component of that. We've also sent some teachers to the writing Revolution and 95% group for our intervention teachers.
NEXT> Stephanie: And I've heard wonderful, wonderful things about all three of those. And our administrators. I participated with our principles to take letters for admin, so that was really nice as

[15123-94] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated on the recording (el | 2023-06-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: because I know that we are required by state law to provide programing for gifted and talented. And also, if there's anything that includes, Holocaust studies, I know that we have to sustain New Hampshire as mandated, that we have to provide that as well.
TEXT> So the wit and wisdom materials that we purchased for K-5, there's multiple entry points. And what they've put together for six through 12 also has multiple entry points. So not only can we move up to extend for the learners that are ready to move forward, but it also allows freedom for us to be able to bring it down, to reteach and to remediate the lowest students. So all of that is here. This is a launching pad. Think of it. Think of as layer one education. If you receive today the piece that I forgot to send you for the assessment framework,  if you read through that, it speaks about EMTs. And that's the next thing that Ben and I have been working on. I think the last time I was out. Wally, what was it you said?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Gallivanting.

[15123-96] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated on the recording (el | 2023-06-07
PREV> Ben Nester: Gallivanting.
TEXT> Gallivanting, I was not I was  taxi for my daughter, but he presented on some plans that we've been doing with special education, and we need to tie in our intervention teachers to revamp our handbook. And we have a draft of that that we've been working on.  Clearly we can only digest so much at one time, all of us. So once this gets through, this is layer one of education, also called tier one. So layer two, layer three and layer four, which I like to call special education, are all outlined in the handbook. So how do we get that extra layer of services for students who need to go up or below. And then also after tier three, what services do we have and what does that look like? Which I'm not going to get into that because that's all been Nestor's category. But  providing, you know, individualized instruction with an IEP from there. So think of this one as just your basic everybody gets this. No one's left out special education. Students receive this education all in the general education classroom. And where we would like to go next is to really beef up our MTS handbook so that our students are receiving the interventions they need to be successful.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Thank you. Wow, that was great. I don't have a question. I have several comments because I did read through it and I'm very impressed. And yeah, the team is

[15123-98] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated on the recording (el | 2023-06-07
PREV> Bonnie Miles: question I do have is how can we support the implementation of the curriculum with the program materials through that staff development? I mean, that's got to be key. So time and the opportunity for teachers to be able to make this a working document.
TEXT> We've partnered with Great Minds, which is the publisher for Wit and Wisdom and Geodes, and we are working on strategic planning with them. So they've been a part of many districts here in New England that have adopted their programing. And there's a right and a wrong way to roll it out. They learned early on the wrong way is to fast. The right way is to really look at how  how much can you really learn and do efficiently. If you'll remember the Hatty presentation that we did about teacher efficacy, that's where our greatest gains are going to come from. The more comfortable teachers fill with what they're teaching, they're going to be able to teach better. And the less time they have to spend searching for high quality materials, the better they're going to be for their students. Our teachers are working their hind ends off. It's not that they're not doing what they need to do. I hope I don't I don't want to say this the wrong way, but we have to do more to prepare them for what they need to do. And that's what we've done this year. And we've spent a really valiant effort putting all of this together.
NEXT> Stephanie: And I don't know if you were able to look at the curriculum maps. That's really for teachers. I mean, what you look at with the standards, we all know

[15123-109] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Mr. Kosky') | 2023-06-07
PREV> Mike Koski: around 50%. They move from over the years from 48 to 5253% state average wise. So they are we are still performing below, but we are again, similar going to be taking baby steps. And I think we we see those improvements come much later.
TEXT> Here's a  look at those grades by cohorts. So the two bars are the or the three bars are the same group of kids in different years. And so we see improvement year to year for each of those groups. What what we'd like to see is a larger span of improvement as they proceed. But our kids are learning and they are improving their test scores. It's just not, I would say, just not enough at this point. We want to. So we'd like to see greater growth, but we are seeing growth in in L.A..  We'll also see that in the math slide when we talk about that. So overall elementary  our graph is really backwards. We want to we want to get our proficient students well over half of of what our population is. And I think we'll begin to move towards that. So at 32% proficient here compared to about a state average of 50. Middle school a little higher. As we get into this upper grades, I'm going to predict that we see these two flip. I think our early grades, as we implement this science of reading, I'm going to be much higher.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And the middle school and older grades are going to be harder to move and show improvement in, but our early grades are going to jump quite significantly in the

[15123-115] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair | 2023-06-07
PREV> Mike Koski: still an aptitude test. They also have specific content area tests, which are more like an achievement test. So you can take SAT and chemistry or you can take in biology, you can take it in writing. And those would be achieved oriented tests. Right.
TEXT> So what I'm hearing you say, just to be sure, is that you feel that currently our class matrix is okay, that the number of instructor,  educators that we have in positions are okay, that what we're really lacking is the foundation and the framework for  the number of educators that we have with the classes that we have to move forward. They do not have the underpinning and the structure to help them get the achievement gains for their students that we're looking for. Yeah. You know, as a board, for us to be guided about what the district needs, we need to be clear about if, if, if I'm hearing what I'm hearing is we have we have good teachers, we have  adequate class sizes. We we generally have the right class mix.  But we have been failing our teachers and our students with what we have been giving from or support as a district.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. And by support, I mean we haven't established a target. For example, we don't have a curriculum where our teachers know where they're going from September to June. And

[15123-120] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated on the recording (el | 2023-06-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Yes. Thank you. Yes you can.
TEXT> I have a hard. Time. Sitting still over here when I can think of things to say. So I just wanted to clarify if we if we bought a house that was a fixer upper. Okay. And this house needs all kinds of work in every room. We cannot focus on every room at. One time. We have to focus on the bathroom first because that's where you're going to do your business, right. That's the most important room. The kitchen is a very important room. Think of that same situation with our teachers. Our teachers are skilled. Our teachers that stay here, they know what to do. Our students come to them. Think of an eighth grade student that hasn't had the foundation that they need coming up, because we haven't had the materials for teachers to use. So they're scrounging, doing the best they can. And then eighth grade, you have all of the things you need to teach them, and you're not equipped to teach them the things from kindergarten through eighth grade. You're going to start in the least restrictive place possible. That's going to help that student be the most successful that they can be.
NEXT> Stephanie: And for example, this happens in math, social studies, science, and all content areas I could give you. But for the Ela department a couple of years ago, they noticed

[15123-122] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated on the recording (el | 2023-06-07
PREV> Stephanie: just want to make sure that our message is clear that we're saying teachers are working hard the same in kindergarten. We're going to come back and present to you our our ready scores. This is one score, right. And the test isn't that great.
TEXT> I'm going to tell you our test in New Hampshire needs to be revamped. And we looked at if you wanted to work on something as a board, that would be fantastic for you to do because it's it's an awful test. It doesn't give us what we need to really know what what to do for our students. It doesn't test them in a way that's really beneficial to the student. It's almost against them from the beginning. So that's one measure. When we show you our eye ready scores, you're going to see the growth that they've made in K through five. You're going to see the growth they've made in doubles that you can't see in a third and fourth grade student. A third graders never taken a test like this. There's so many variables to that. They're not taught that way either. Our test isn't aligned to the science of reading. So there's so many things that you're not seeing there that I don't want to discredit our teachers or our work that we're doing to say, we didn't make it this year. They are making it. But you have to hone in on a small thing.
NEXT> Stephanie: If we were to take the math scores, for example, I think that they actually had, you know, a little bit lower of percentage of proficient this year than last

[15123-128] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2023-06-07
PREV> Mike Koski: I don't know if I could say that either.
TEXT> At least. At least that you could drill into the curriculum strands and look at the areas where where groups of your kids were were not performing, like you said, numbers in operations or  in the case of high school geometry, whatever, whatever it was, you could look at that. So if you if you're you can have the best curriculum in the world, but if the assessment doesn't give you what your, your data teams need to drill into to find out, okay, where are we falling down? Where's the. Where is it breaking. Yeah,  that's that's problematic. So I think that's what you're trying to say.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Well. Just you.

[15123-157] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; chair, Capital Improvement subcommittee | 2023-06-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: All right.
TEXT> Yeah. Maybe that's more because I. I don't see what she's talking about. Okay, okay. And then and also I have requested with Mr. Holt when we can see the Stevens High School once the kids are out of school. And I said, give me three days and and it's late in the day as possible because we have people that work during the day. So I'll when I get that from him, I'll let you know. And then we can figure out a day we're going to see Stevens. And then the only one we haven't seen is,  is Maple Avenue. So we'll put that after that. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. The budget subcommittee chair, we don't have we haven't had any meetings, and we're going to be eating, I think, to be setting those up with Miss Henry.

[15123-286] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair | 2023-06-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: That depends on what the urgency of it is.
TEXT> That's what I'm kind of asking. And and we also have,  one of our, one of our goals,  at the retreat was climate and culture goals. And I think that if we want to tackle,  our issues with bullying in the schools and,  a negative culture that is not  supporting learning and feelings of safety for all of our students, then we would have to, as a board, to commit to spending the summer  doing a lot more than we normally do. But if people are unavailable physically unavailable, that is something we have to consider as well. I mean, this is normally there's a hiatus. A school board kind of takes a month hiatus if we're not going to have enough people in attendance, or  if folks just want to do subcommittees and try to kind of tackle it that way.  But we just have to be honest with ourselves whether or not we have the time,  or the ability to focus on it over the summer. Is there any thoughts on on that? I'm one of.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Those people who tends to be away in the summer, and I'm looking at this list of agenda items, and you're saying our next agenda agenda is full? Is this

[15123-291] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23; retired elementary pri | 2023-06-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: be realistic about what we're going to be able to tackle this summer. And if we're going to focus on one thing, two things, if we're going, you know, and I want to hear from the board so I can help structure things for us.
TEXT> You have to do retreat. We talked about or at the retreat, we talked about the need to get together again, to continue the work we started, and also to focus on reinforcing a positive culture climate that is geared to successful experiences for our students. So I think we do need to do that. That's important for us because we always need to focus on student achievement. So I'll I'll travel and come back.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So are we would we are we interested in tackling? I think we've got the curriculum. Crew from our administrative strand point is doing all the heavy lifting as appropriate

[15123-292] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair | 2023-06-07
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: focus on reinforcing a positive culture climate that is geared to successful experiences for our students. So I think we do need to do that. That's important for us because we always need to focus on student achievement. So I'll I'll travel and come back.
TEXT> So  are we would we are we interested in tackling?  I think we've got the curriculum. Crew from our administrative strand point is doing all the heavy lifting as appropriate for our student achievement goals.  And Mike kind of verbalize this evening, similar  to what we had discussed at the retreat, is what we were considering success in the next year as far as increase in student scores. So I'm not 100% sure if we as a board need to spend time on that this summer, seeing that the impact that we have is to give the administrative team a direction. And we've clearly done that.  And the budget committee will be tackling our budget goals, but the climate and culture goals, if we are going to really focus on that, then we can move it off to start talking about this more in September. But we have to be honest with the fact that we're just not we're not going to face the summer.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: I like to say something. So if if we're going to meet in July, so they say, I mean, if you disagree with me, but they they say the first

[15123-339] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair | 2023-06-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: county wide law enforcement, folks, and they would be willing to come and speak to the board. And I believe that the chief of police would be part of that group to kind of explain to us what their role is when they have issues.
TEXT> That kind of boils out of the school into the community, what they can handle, what they can't handle, what our juvenile delinquency system is, what the resources are  and what their perspective is.  With my brief communication with Mike, he was saying that there's been more recent challenges because there has been changed legislation and the way the state is viewing,  juvenile juvenile offenders and how they're handled. So  a lot of the stuff is being shipped, shipped back into the school, and we really don't have the resources, but there's almost like no place for, you know, there's we're struggling to find how to how to manage  these individuals and how to support the victims, as well as  the kids who are the perpetrators, who are often victims themselves. And that's why they become perpetrators of the bullying. So,  I can make that happen.  And that may be a first step, is just being able to hear about what the community has to offer and what the external resources are from.  A law enforcement perspective is and.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I think that's great. Yeah, that's a good idea.

[15153-13] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member and SAU 6 Board Chair — resigns 'effecti | 2023-06-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes.
TEXT> Chair Whitney and vice chair Sprague. Tonight, I am disheartened to be resigning from  my position as a member of the Claremont School Board, effective immediately. It was a difficult decision to come to, I believe over the past two plus years that this board has made forward progress. It has not been easy and the time commitment has been well worth it. However, my time has come to an end. I had a lot of hope for this team to continue to make gains. I chose to come back to the Nonpartizan board with the ultimate goal of increasing student success. However, the divisive national politics and lack of respect and decorum towards me have made my time on the board over the last few months unbearable. I have been respectful to this entire board, even when ideal ideologies were different. I respected the board's decisions even when I  wholeheartedly disagreed. What I will not tolerate is a lack of respect and personal attacks from board members, especially when they interfere with my ability to do my job as a board member and saw six chair. With this said, I leave this board with the hope that the progress continues in a more professional manner amongst this board.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Sorry. You go.

[15153-81] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 — gives the Superintendent's Report a | 2023-06-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: what you would need to vote on now is for the 90,000 for the same quality of materials, same person, same vendor who has done this with our other roofs, very, very, you know, quality of work that we spoke about in the previous allocation.
TEXT> So well while they're up there, they could knock this off this summer. So that's that's what I put before you on behalf of Steve Holt, who's on vacation right now, where he would be here. Yeah. Pre three. Vacation plans before this meeting.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Okay.

[15153-122] David Jack | Business Administrator (interim, Municipal Resources Inc.) — the chair | 2023-06-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: how you incentivize doing the paperwork if they're eating anyway and just not paying. So I don't know. I don't know what. I don't know if that's what's happening. I'm not sure why we have the deficit, but it's, you know, I don't know why.
TEXT> It's it's my experience that,  most school districts operate in the deficit. You're looking you also mentioned some historical information and participation. During Covid. The free and reduced just kind of turned upside down as the way we usually do it. Everybody had access to a lot of the program.  It's going to take some time to get people to revisit that. When people need to know is there's a tremendous advantage if you're eligible for it, it's completely anonymous. But if you're eligible for it, it works. It works well for everybody. It works well for the school district because of the reimbursements. It works well for the students involved.  It's just we have a lot of difficulty,  getting the message out to folks to start doing the paperwork again, because there were a couple of years during Covid where we didn't have to do the paperwork was just an automatic. So you're going to. You're going to have some of that are still learning going out there,  going forward.  And the only way that we've been able to really attack it is to and is different in every, every situation, but is to, you know, people have to be vigilant. It means administration, anybody any help that we can to keep that out there. If people are watching tonight,  you know, that's it's an opportunity for us to tell folks that, you know, it's available. Please fill out the paperwork. It really is an added value to everybody.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so is it people's mindset that it's, I'm just going to run a balance? It was free last year, so I'm going to get it for free. Is that

[15153-152] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023); policy-committee me | 2023-06-21
PREV> Miss Skinner: lot of families think that they'll just turn it in later and we'll retro back all those meals and that charge and that it's not the case at all. I've had to have that conversation with a lot of families because they they just misunderstood.
TEXT> So do you think that if there was some type of, especially for the students, if you can get someone to turn this in and we can't bribe them, but you know what I mean, what can you do to.
NEXT> Miss Skinner: We have talked about incentives. Incentives. Yeah, we've talked about I know a few years ago, before I started working here, our Maple principal had done some sort of competition

[15153-176] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board — calls the meeting to order; answers 'Y | 2023-06-21
PREV> Mike Koski: No, I agree, and people have been doing that type of outreach. Terry Casey, Courtney Porter, all, all that type of stuff, knowing that I will put it on the agenda. Yeah. So.
TEXT> I just have one question for you. I went on the New Hampshire doesn't matter where I got the information. So  I found some information about community eligibility and what can you tell me about that?  And I saw that our enrollment, it looks like we're at 38.9% of our kids are eligible. And if we hit 40%, we would be able to be eligible for this community eligibility provision, which sounded like that. All of our lunches would be paid for that.
NEXT> Miss Skinner: Actually, it's one of the questions that Arlene asked as well, and I put a somewhat lengthy answer in there about that in a give an example. So keep and

[15193-146] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Board Chair - elected at this meeting by show of hands over Marj | 2023-07-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: was, you know, kind of upset about it. They were also having a tough time finding housing in the area. So a lot of personal reasons. But she was a incredible addition to us and would be missed to mentally. So my apologies to everyone.
TEXT> I don't know if I can speak on behalf of the board, but she will be sorely missed in this district. She has done incredible work and been part of a a forward moving, wonderful team. And it's Georgia's gain and it's our loss.
NEXT> Unidentified: So agreed.

[15205-80] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2023-07-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: I do not know what is on the list.
TEXT> Okay. I think it's just been a drill in terms of allergy meds. I know that, I do coconut Tylenol are also on the list and parents do have to,  check off which ones they're okay with the nurse administering. To the student. Every at the beginning of every school year as a parents choice. Right. I'd like I, I would be in favor of the tech, but I'd also like to get,  Ronnie's opinion on the other over-the-counter non drowsy allergy medicines like Allegra and Claritin, because I know that some, some ingredients work different for different people. Like, for example, it doesn't work for me. Allegro does. So if I were a student, I'd want to. Allegra. So I just want to know their opinion on adding those others to the list.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is it possible she's referring to to insert a generic sense?

[15205-107] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board — reads RSA 671:33, runs the board-vacan | 2023-07-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: term. In the case of a vacancy of the entire membership of the school board or the remaining members are unavailable by majority vote to agree upon the appointment. The selection of the town or town's involved shall appoint members by majority vote in convention.
TEXT> There's also other prevention provisions for cooperative school districts. I spoke with Matt Upton about this, as did, Mike Tempesta, and I'm just going to kind of review what the process is. And so the the appointees can also hear what the process is. And first of all, I don't know if you can hear me on behalf of the board, I would like to thank our candidates for your willingness to participate in this very public appointment process. Our community is extremely fortunate to have folks such as yourselves willing to commit their time and apply their life skills to the benefit of our students, our district, and by extension, our community. At a recent meeting, the board discussed how we wanted this process to look within the confines of the RSA, that it instructs how to fill the vacancy. Overwhelmingly, the board wanted a process that would not discourage further community members from coming forward to fill other school board and municipal vacancies. The board felt limiting the number of questions asked and providing the same questions to each candidate was fair. I spoke with our District Attorney, Matt Upton twice, most recently this Monday, to review the process. He offered some suggestions that I feel reasonable to add for clarity and to extradite expedite the voting.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: He also instructed what cannot or should not happen. And I tried to paraphrase what he said, we cannot pick a name randomly. We I think a lot of the

[15205-127] David Bailey | Applicant for the vacant Claremont School Board seat — Claremont homeo | 2023-07-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: Have about two minutes left. Mr..
TEXT> Two minutes. Okay. Like, you know, my wife works for Walmart, I work for Hannaford, and they're always trying to recruit her over. And she's like, yeah, I've been there for five years. I'm not going to go over there for a buck more. And I'm like, well, would you go for $5? And she's like, I'd apply tomorrow. I feel like maybe that's, you know, kind of what could be happening with our teachers. I would like to see what we, you know, what we did with the police trying to incentivize them to stay here, you know, keep the best and the brightest. It starts there with how our children are going to go from there.  The other one I was passionate about was,  right here in this building. I heard  a statistic. Maybe I'm off, but, like 40% of the kids here in Claremont go to college. Maybe it's lower.  It's terrible.  But, I mean, have you called a plumber an electrician lately? I mean, you just can't get them to come to your house. That's done.  You know, contractors, we should invest here in this building as best as we can.
NEXT> David Bailey: I know money doesn't grow on trees, but we should be providing all kinds of programs for the kids who maybe don't want to call it go to college. You

[15205-128] David Bailey | Applicant for the vacant Claremont School Board seat — Claremont homeo | 2023-07-19
PREV> David Bailey: Maybe it's lower. It's terrible. But, I mean, have you called a plumber an electrician lately? I mean, you just can't get them to come to your house. That's done. You know, contractors, we should invest here in this building as best as we can.
TEXT> I know money doesn't grow on trees, but we should be providing all kinds of programs for the kids who maybe don't want to call it go to college. You know, my daughter, I have two daughters, one state and graduated with a degree, and one she's just working at Dartmouth. But she called hospital, but she's making great money and she bought a house here in Claremont. I helped her get it, you know, so I have a, you know, even more family invested here. So. But my point is, like, not everybody needs to go to college, but you can make a lot of money being,  you know, you probably me. I just had the plumber bill. Me.  You know, I hate the fact that I read. I maybe it was a year ago that we were sending some kids to sign up. I mean, I'm sorry, Newport,  tech center. You know, we should have these guys come here. You know, we should have awesome programs. You know, we should utilize what we have here. You know, give them. Give them an option,  you know, make it. Make it worth their while. You know, kind of like, recruit them, you know, like, let's let's get them in there. You know, give them something to. But thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah. Thank you, thank you, thank you. A b c.

[15205-143] Candace Crawford | Applicant for the vacant Claremont School Board seat; Ward 2 — served  | 2023-07-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay.
TEXT> This community is very invested in having the tech center be a key part of providing a great education for the students of Claremont. It is an economic driver. If appointed, I can continue to be an effective liaison between the committee and the school board. And number two, overall scholastic achievement for our students. Covid really impacted student achievements everywhere, but regardless of the Covid impact, our district has much work to do. I'm delighted with the progress my Kosky and his team have made. I want to support and encourage continued progress. This just doesn't happen. It needs sustained school board focus and support. We owe this to our children and to the community. I would be happy to entertain any questions you might have.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Mr.. Does anyone have any questions for Miss Crawford? You're pretty well. No thank you. She is. Thank you. Mr..

[15205-151] Kevin Tyson | Applicant for the vacant Claremont School Board seat; Ward 2 — self-id | 2023-07-19
PREV> Unidentified: I don't think.
TEXT> Any impact from the racial and ethnic baggage. How would you be able to support board decisions that are not philosophically or intellectually aligned with yours? I am a team player. I do not abandon the team when the team goes wrong. Rather, I work diligently to change the team's direction. That being said, the board provides governance and oversight on behalf of the citizens of Claremont, so engaging in open and frank discussions with the citizenry is necessary. My two issues are  student achievement is my primary issue. Graduating students that are not proficient in reading, math, and science is a betrayal of the parents, students, and taxpayers. That settles the students with extra debt to achieve acceptable college level performance. After spending the taxpayers money to educate the very same students. The second issue, the structure of our product offering is my second primary issue, and I think of what the school system does as a product. It's the end of the first quarter of the 21st century. Our school system still marches the students through the same rigid 12th grade program that John Dewey would have recognized 100 years ago. This must change in recognition of the fact that parents and students have multitudinous goals. We need multifaceted product offering the offering that satisfies a broader range of needs.
NEXT> Kevin Tyson: Everyone doesn't have to go to college. Everyone doesn't have to spend 12 years in primary and secondary education. Everyone needs reading and math as a foundation for learning, rhetoric,

[15205-169] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member — thanking all three applicants before t | 2023-07-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Perspective of.
TEXT> Parental. Perspective that would really be an asset to the board at some point in time and to Candy and to Kevin. You guys bring a whole bunch of good stuff. So this is not an easy process for every single person. I think I speak on behalf of all of us. So we appreciate you being here. And there are other school boys that cannot find one person and we have this problem. So thank you all for sending.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. So I'm going to have. The vote all in the favor of nominating Candy Crawford for the position of I'm sorry. She's already. Now nominated all favor of voting

[15205-188] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; former principal of Stevens High S | 2023-07-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: our lunch services out. This is new, and I have to think that there's a connection between subcontracting lunch services and having our own. And maybe I look at Mary, and maybe it's just not feasible economically. And if it's not, you know, it's not.
TEXT> But but I think I think that that this is an offshoot of, of that change. I. I think it. Could be two and. One thing. And I know that we've. We've discussed this a little bit, and particularly the perspective at Fall Mountain where the kids are in a enclosed area. Versus. My opinion recently being here and also being a high school principal, three different high schools, and of the senior privilege impact. Right. So we know the flock of kids that go out. And if students are listening to which they're probably not in the summer, but they could be  some of that is impactful. Well, it used to be senior, not I believe. No, it's juniors, it is, it is. And that's new. That was not the case when I went there. But but you know, getting back to that, I think when you've got someone who's really vested the, the staff that actually works for the district saying, you know, you've got to get because they're more than aware of who, who's not paying and who is paying. And when it comes to their bottom line, they're very motivated to make sure those kids get those forms. So I'm not saying we we ditch fresh picks. I'm just pointing out that it's a heck of a coincidence in my mind.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If. I think of messaging is the key point here. And to make it about the lunch paperwork instead of the free and reduced lunch paperwork, and to reduce the

[15205-467] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023, one-year seat) — add | 2023-07-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: I was just clarifying. Sorry.
TEXT> That's okay.  Just wanted to add a future agenda item. I don't know if we can add it going forward, but, at our retreat, we discussed starting each meeting with, like, a positive affirmation regarding  the Claremont School District and what our mission statement is and what we believe our students are capable of. And I would like to see that added to the agenda.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Are we going to have individual board members? Should we assign that to each member for each board meeting?

[15205-479] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board — reads RSA 671:33, runs the board-vacan | 2023-07-19
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: It's Michelle Harrington.
TEXT> Thank you. And I think I don't know if this is legal or not, but I think we need to recognize people who are doing wonderful things for our students. Superintendents report if we if if we can add that, I think that would be appropriate for the superintendent's report. I agree. Are you is that okay with you?
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh.

[15228-10] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> We are now moving into the consent agenda, and I first have to ask if any member wishes to move any item from the consent agenda to the regular agenda for discussion. And if I don't see any requests for moving, I will assume no.  And first, I would like to thank  the Claremont Savings Bank and the Jack and Dorothy Burns Foundation for their continued generosity that greatly benefits the students of the Claremont School District. Just for the public to know, bluff elementary was awarded $2,000 for an outdoor learning  space, seating,  and  Bluff Elementary received a donation of $1,000 to be used towards outdoor playground and physical education equipment. And the Claremont School District received a donation from the Claremont Savings Bank to help with the back to school festival activities. So if there's  no dissent or request not to move forward with the consent agenda, we will assume that it's consented. Moving now into citizens comments, any citizen who would like to speak, if you would please come to the podium, state your name  and ward, and we'll give you three minutes to speak to the board. We have three. We have Alex.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Good evening, Alex Herzog, Ward two, but director of the tech center here. And I just want to report quickly. I know you got a busy agenda tonight. We had

[15228-11] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identifi | 2023-08-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: that it's consented. Moving now into citizens comments, any citizen who would like to speak, if you would please come to the podium, state your name and ward, and we'll give you three minutes to speak to the board. We have three. We have Alex.
TEXT> Good evening, Alex Herzog, Ward two, but director of the tech center here. And I just want to report quickly. I know you got a busy agenda tonight. We had our one week summer camp where we had three different summer camps here. We had about 35 students in attendance. These were all middle school students, either sixth, seventh and eighth grade. So I'm going to ninth grade.  We had a culinary program, engineering, which engineering this year used drones. Thanks to our Perkins Grant, we were able to get some of those kids had a great experience. Our overall valuations back was overwhelmingly positive. The kids had a great experience. So another great thing to kind of promote the tech center of what we offer every student. Thanks to the financial support from the counties, they donated $1,000 to us.  And the camp does cost $25 a student  to attend. But they got free lunches from the soup kitchen every day and breakfast was offered to them.  And then every student that had got this really great t. I don't know if you can see it straight out of Claremont promoting a little positivity on the back.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We got the Tech Center logo and the Kiwanis logo. So thank you to the the soup kitchen for all their support. And I think a lot of kids walked

[15228-12] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identifi | 2023-08-02
PREV> Alex Herzog: got free lunches from the soup kitchen every day and breakfast was offered to them. And then every student that had got this really great t. I don't know if you can see it straight out of Claremont promoting a little positivity on the back.
TEXT> We got the Tech Center logo and the Kiwanis logo. So thank you to the  the soup kitchen for all their support. And I think a lot of kids walked away with a different view of the tech. It was all about learning, but in a really fun, non-judgmental, graded kind of way. So the kids really had a great experience. So thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. The good news. Appreciate that. Anyone else?

[15228-20] Steven Horsky | Ward 2 resident and former Claremont School Board member (resigned 6/2 | 2023-08-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Got three minutes.
TEXT> All right. So I'm going to keep it short and sweet. We've had the debate previously when I was on the policy committee in regards to the head lice policy. It was deemed by the board at the time that it made the most sense for the public interest of our community to maintain the policy as written prior to this change. We did look at the facts where it says that it's not recommended, so on and so forth due to missing days. However, once we implemented the policy as written, we noticed that a lot less families were calling to complain about it, and there seems to be less infestations per classroom taking place.  I unfortunately, because of somebody having it with the no net policy, got to spend a lot of time knitting a household, and I don't think anybody should have to do that. So I recommend keeping it as it is not changing it to the recommended status, because we reverted from that years ago and it was really the best interest of this community. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Any other member of the community would like to speak.

[15228-79] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School - the chair calls 'Miss Lewis' at | 2023-08-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah. Let's do it. Thank you. Miss Lewis.
TEXT> The elementary handbook.  I'm sure Mr. Tempesta has shared with you. We saw it last year. The guidance of our, our. Lawyers. To say. Hey, could you please take a look at our our student handbooks? Family handbooks. We want to make sure that they have all of the information that they should contain. Do we have redundant information and just get that additional lens. And so when we received that feedback, those are the changes that have been made for the 2324 handbook. So we've gone through and updated we got all of the new hires at six. We will do another double check. We certainly updated calendars. We updated report card schedules, those kinds of things.  So a review of dates was done and then literally whatever the attorney suggested for revisions, we certainly include those. Otherwise, there was no, revisions of content to the handbook. So the content essentially is just as was before you last year.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: The. Policy committee is bringing forth policies tonight, and I. I know that that's going to impact your hands and you'll have the opportunity to update whatever is.

[15228-253] Jeff Small | Director of Technology, SAU 6 - his answer to a question put to him, c | 2023-08-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: So you have an application and you have the list of users. And you have to integrate those to the list into the app so that they can log into the. And that's true for every app that you have.
TEXT> Yes. As well as we, you know, our student information system  like an elementary level. They have the classes, right? They have a teacher. And here's their roster. So we usually have to pull that information like this is grade three English. It's with this teacher. And here's the students. So this way sometimes a teacher kicks off that application. So when she logs in she can see all her students. So but to get that information into that application that's roster.
NEXT> Unidentified: Comments quick. Yes.

[15228-273] Jeff Small | Director of Technology, SAU 6 - the chair announces 'Jeff Small, techn | 2023-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Of it to signing privileges. Yeah. Yeah.
TEXT> And also giving you the data. Right. And giving me the data. I'm the one who has to renew the software. So I have some tools to look at. But I want to know, like how is this being used and, you know, does the teacher even like it? Do the kids even. You know what I mean? So we just don't have that that level. So that's. Could we. So then the other it's still the online question.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[15228-507] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; former Stevens High School staff m | 2023-08-02
PREV> Mary Henry: Special ed aid is your kids that have I'm trying to think it's or identified students that need special education services. And those are the ones that are considered here.
TEXT> Okay. So we have a certain percentage of our kids that are. So if we go from 600 and has the formula changed or we just have more special ed kids?
NEXT> Mary Henry: Right now from fiscal year 23 to fiscal year 24, the amount has changed. But we also have about 30 more kids are giving us this year.

[15228-604] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: Do you know what the difference is? Steve spoke to not changing it.
TEXT> My understanding was there was a period in time where,  head lice was running rampant through the school district there, and I, and I think Steve actually ran on the issue.  And that parents were extremely frustrated that they were doing the treatments for their child at home, bringing, you know, doing the laundry. Yeti I gotta sending their kids to school. And they were just getting repeatedly reinfected. And so the old policy, my understanding, is quite similar to the policy that's being that that this policy is,  I actually  did look at the CDC require recommendations.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Oh, yeah. I've got to look in compare what were the changes? This is to.

[15228-688] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: for this alt ed program, and I can't. I have a hard time thinking it needs to be here. So so before we go too far into that whole program, I am I just want to voice my concern about the use of this building.
TEXT> And interestingly enough, there was I, I had a conversation on with multiple people today and also with Doctor Beard about  use of the facilities. And  there are  there are  RSA that indicate or  require that we use this facility for  CTE related activities. But there is deliberately per doctor beard, no, teeth in those RSA or sanctions for not doing so to allow flexibility within use for the facility. Now it doesn't mean that and although monies were given by the state and I'm not saying I support anything. So before this gets put down and so some kind of record, I'm just kind of relaying information,  that the, the school district owns the building. Ultimately the school district can decide what to do with the building. And although it would be unfortunate if we did so and we may not receive money in the future for renovations, etc., if it was not kept for CTE activities. That said, even an alternative program if there is a CTE component, if you can show that the kids in the alternative program are learning a skill that is considered a technical skill that they can transfer into the community, it would be in compliance.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: However, I mean, there are lots of ifs in that statement.

[15228-717] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto secreta | 2023-08-02
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: How can I ask that?
TEXT> Yeah. And I know, Chris. One other thought,  I mean, Chris Pratt has been instrumental in, in some of these sort of discussions we've had. And and that's something that Chris brought forward was, you know, if the students are housed here, you know, we want to see them taking CTE courses, you know, and and I did have a  conversation with Alex Herzog about that today. Not again. It was very, very much I don't want to speak for Alex, but that was part of our discussion, was having the kids enrolled in tech courses, because many of the kids that need that alternative programing are the ones that are going to.
NEXT> Unidentified: Attack with some.

[15228-719] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023); Tech Center Visio | 2023-08-02
PREV> Unidentified: Attack with some.
TEXT> They did say today that the kids would be going to the high school for lunch, so there would be some transition back and forth between the buildings, but  all I wanted to do was just bring it. There are lots of other. I think there can be lots of other choices, and I think that the,  community response to locating it in this building would be more than you want. To deal. I mean.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, we could wait for the presentation.

[15228-726] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-02
PREV> Ben Nester: it begin in September. Absolutely. I mean, it's again, maybe I jump the gun a little bit here with this, but I just know that the board has expressed, you know, very specifically the desire to reduce dropout rate and decrease the budget. And that's.
TEXT> Absolutely I recall the presentation. We were very supportive of keeping our kids here and helping the dropout rate be reduced. But in terms of the actual program, I don't remember anything being presented to the board.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So the only thing I, I shared was a was a, a one page overall structure of the program that included staffing and, and how we would use existing staff

[15228-733] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; chair of the capital-improvement subcom | 2023-08-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: But we have to make a decision very, very quickly. Because it sounds like space is an issue. Is space an issue? Like what? What would the I mean, I guess we can talk about what the options are.
TEXT> Yeah. How how do we know for sure? I mean, is if the high school is so big and there aren't as many students as there were at one time, why can't we use? The thing of it is, I hate to rock. I hate to rock the boat. And if we have the CTE courses for these students already here, but we don't have that yet. And that's what really makes me nervous. I like to see the courses in place. It approved and then we can bring them in if we have the courses.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: For them to have then present. When do you think it would be?

[15228-747] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: We have to approve a program, not approve a program in term in time for September.
TEXT> That's what I that's what I'm hearing, is that we need to know whether we can bring these kids back or  we can't, or if there's alternatives available. As far as space is concerned, that would be appropriate.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So the last thing I would say is that the, the new charter school in, in town that's down, I guess it's in the old flock building that's actually they

[15228-748] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; former Stevens High School staff m | 2023-08-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's what I that's what I'm hearing, is that we need to know whether we can bring these kids back or we can't, or if there's alternatives available. As far as space is concerned, that would be appropriate.
TEXT> So the last thing I would say is that the,  the new charter school in, in town that's down, I guess it's in the old flock building that's actually they use two women that actually I hired to work in the alternative program that we had  as consultants. So I have to assume that they are thinking about a from what I read about  in their  kids, these kids, that is the dropout prevention program.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, yeah.

[15228-759] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: 80, 80 would be a good fit for that, good fit for that program. That's what that's what their conversations with our district people.
TEXT> ET cetera. And that's in addition to the students who would be in this alternative program.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, not necessarily.

[15228-775] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Or the pros and cons of those locations and the pros and cons of this location. Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> So  I think it would be more than location. It's the kids who would be in the program, the kids who would be going elsewhere. I mean, it's not just location.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No.

[15228-778] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: No matching of the program. He's got all that information.
TEXT> Got all that information. But the part that we're having the issue with is where the location is going to be and what's appropriate. As for and we want to hear what Ben and Mike have to say about what's available for location, how appropriate it is for this program. Pros and cons. Pros and cons of having it here, not having it here, whether those kids are going to be served in other locations as well as they would here, and if any of that makes a difference, I mean, if there is such resistance from the board that no matter what, we're not going to have it here. And that's the way that goes to, I don't think there's any nice way of looking at this. That's just kind of what it is, is that we have a we have a problem,  then gave us the solution at our at a meeting, told us what his solution was, what the savings were. The part that we didn't hear was that this facility was part of that solution. So the only piece we really need to know is decision about because we supported him moving forward with this program already is we gave him the the go ahead in that meeting.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So has the board seen this program before?

[15228-780] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: So has the board seen this program before?
TEXT> We entrusted Ben to develop a program at a meeting after  lengthy presentation. He had a number of students that needed to come back. He died with cost savings to the district. The benefit to the students, the two type of students that would help address the dropout rate. In that presentation Ben and I have talked about, this is truly the piece that was missing was the location I did not know about. And I'm thank God you confirm that you never told me.  So the real the real piece of the puzzle is, is are we going to, as a board, say yes to here if this is the most appropriate place, or  accept that there may be other places that this program could occur that may be suboptimal, and we'll make a decision that the suboptimal location of the of this program is what our value system says. And that could be okay. I'm not I'm not throwing any.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Maybe this is suboptimal compared to other.

[15240-32] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - Nester defers to him for program  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: About 13.
TEXT> So maybe it. Might have been like ten and 11. Okay. One one the Senate bill.  18 came in which raised the, the dropout aged 18. So that was what it was in response to. Okay. So the state offered funding.  Offered an RFP for schools that wanted to come up with programing for that for those 16 to 18 year olds that, might have typically. Have dropped out now that they're going to be in school. Right. The schools, the opportunity to apply for grants, to develop programing to meet the needs of those kids.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And that's when that's what was the grant was.

[15240-36] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: in close contact with Joel Schneider at the time. And so, as one might expect, when you when you try to operate a program like that in a in a facility that's not equipped to serve those students, it is going to dissolve over time.
TEXT> And it did. I think it existed an additional two and a half years before its dissolution, and  primarily due to the disruptive behaviors and also the staffing issues, it was tough to staff that students. So  I believe that was. The year 18, the academic year 1819, when all of programing at the high school ceased to exist. We did not have an alternative program for for students outside of out of district placement and in jobs, job corps and other non non district non district options. So in in in short before I get into this today what we're looking to do is revitalize the Owls program. Because we have a significant dropout rate. We want to  you know, target that population of students. And then secondly, if the profiles of the students align, ideally we would identify one, maybe two students that are currently out of district placement that have made progress enough to be served and have a similar profile to students that would have historically been served in the Owls program. Again, that's sort of a primary or secondary focus of the program. But, you know, the desire to bring students back from out of district is, you know, just just my way of responding to the school board's goals that were established at the summer retreat around,  you know, the reduction of our district students by 50% over two years.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So that's the driving force. And in bringing the presentation of the program to you guys today, the second thing I'll mention quickly, I know we've many of us have

[15240-38] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: so the the facts on the matter, as I understand it, and those that are more well versed, Mr. Pope and others can certainly weigh in. And Alex, is that the you know, by having non CTE programs here we we don't lose Perkins money.
TEXT> But when and if we choose to renovate, if there are non CTE programs here that would be a nonstarter for the state in terms of funding. So it's just want you guys to be fully aware that I'm aware of that. And while I'll have some various recommendations tonight, it's wildly important to me that we don't displace any of our CTE programing. It's not my intent at all. It's just simply to capitalize on this, this building and,  keep our costs down as a school district. The presentation.  So the the purpose of the program I've already touched on is to provide students that are unsuccessful in a traditional high school setting the support they need so they may earn a high school diploma. That is our goal. That's our product as a school district, if you will.  Also, another purpose is to  have these students receive work readiness training. And Lee Malloy is going to talk a little bit more about that in a minute.  The primary method of programing will be what would call a youth driven personal learning plan,  where a student's schedule is designed in coordination with the lead teacher and can include a variety of options, which we'll go into in a minute.  So this this is our primary purpose, I would say our secondary purpose,  as in regard to or in response to the board's goal of bringing down our district costs would be our our secondary purpose.
NEXT> Ben Nester: If feasible, we would like to take select students that are ready to be in district and transition them back, you know, as is our obligation anyway. Potential staffing structure

[15240-40] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: students will be receiving is through Odyssey. Where or imagine Odyssey where as it's now called, which is an online curriculum and online online programing. And so we're looking for someone with the 1900 credential at at the state level, the basics of the schedule.
TEXT> There's an AMP session. So there's two cohorts of students. One cohort attends in the morning, one a different cohort attends in the in the afternoon.  We're looking for 6 to 8 students per session. And then in terms of capacity, that could change over time based on the students that come through our threshold and the success of the program. Of course,  when when the students are not in session, which means when they're not in the one of the morning or afternoon sessions receiving their online learning,  we would like to see them enrolled in tech courses,  potentially high school courses, if they are  positioned well. To do that. Extended learning opportunities would be an avenue for credit  work placement as well. And then  we would like to see the work placement opportunities tied to ELO, which allows a student to earn credits toward graduation. Vlachs is an option for some as well. So  as far as the personal learning plan goes,  I mentioned these already, but these are the items that that would lead to credit. Certainly courses here at the Tech Center, online courses. This would be the bulk of the courses. Where we would target the.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Core academic courses, the four math, the three English, etc. and then with with that arrangement with the online learning there, there must be a content area teacher that signs

[15240-41] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: as far as the personal learning plan goes, I mentioned these already, but these are the items that that would lead to credit. Certainly courses here at the Tech Center, online courses. This would be the bulk of the courses. Where we would target the.
TEXT> Core academic courses, the four math, the three English, etc.  and then with with that arrangement with the online learning there, there must be a content area teacher that signs off as teacher of record. And so that that exists now at the high school, Paul Silver runs the online learning lab and coordinates with teachers in the building that,  do some of the manual grading if necessary and sign off as teacher of record on that  essay courses, potentially ellos and work placements. And then, as I've already mentioned,  other aspects of the program if it comes to fruition  that are not credit bearing but but important  very important in my approximation would be the student's ability to set goals for themselves. We would certainly have them go through interest inventory, which we do that through navigates at the high school. Anyway.  Or job exploration, I think is called a Navy. But,  you know, really targeting what the students interests are so that we can try to tailor their program to something they're interested in because we want to engage them, because currently they're disengaged. And if the trajectory remains the same, they will not be walking across the stage with a diploma. Self-Advocacy skills, time management. I'm going to work on that one myself.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Perseverance is is always important. Social emotional learning might be applicable to some of these students. And then the other two that. Lee, would you mind coming up and chatting

[15240-42] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: to something they're interested in because we want to engage them, because currently they're disengaged. And if the trajectory remains the same, they will not be walking across the stage with a diploma. Self-Advocacy skills, time management. I'm going to work on that one myself.
TEXT> Perseverance is is always important. Social emotional learning might be applicable to some of these students.  And then the other two that. Lee, would you mind coming up and chatting a minute? You ready? So Lee is a special educator we've hired to work at the high school.  If this program does begin in the fall or some time after, Lee would be the ideal,  teacher to run the program. Just a little bit about Lee.  Lee's worked for various state funded entities over the years Impact Academy, Granite State Independent Learning. So she's  ran a program, I think 1617 for the high school.
NEXT> Lee Malloy: That's. Yeah, that's when. I originally met. Yeah. And he was very reluctant when I was running this program that essentially let me step over here. Hi, everybody. I thank

[15240-43] Lee Malloy | Special educator newly hired for Stevens High School - the start of he | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: after, Lee would be the ideal, teacher to run the program. Just a little bit about Lee. Lee's worked for various state funded entities over the years Impact Academy, Granite State Independent Learning. So she's ran a program, I think 1617 for the high school.
TEXT> That's. Yeah, that's when. I originally met. Yeah.  And he was very reluctant when I was running this program that essentially let me step over here. Hi, everybody.  I thank Ben for putting me in the hot seat on all of this. It's great. So what I did with Impact Academy was we did it was a post secondary readiness work training. And so we were in Sullivan County. So Newport Stevens and I kept knocking on Ben's door saying, hey, give me some of your students. Give me some of your students, like the ones that look like they're not going to graduate. You know, that's our that's our demographic. And he kept saying like, no, no, no. And then finally he said, okay, I'm going to give you some, some of this group. So he gave me some life skills, I think was our first round.  They did great. And then when he actually the alternative school was here, Ben said, okay, you did great with them. Now  you're going to go ahead and here's five of our alternative students. Go ahead and take them to Impact Academy and let's see how they do.
NEXT> Lee Malloy: They all graduated. I'm not going to say that there weren't days where you're like, oh, okay, that's some colorful language we're using right now. But they did all graduate.

[15240-44] Lee Malloy | Special educator newly hired for Stevens High School and the proposed  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Lee Malloy: And then when he actually the alternative school was here, Ben said, okay, you did great with them. Now you're going to go ahead and here's five of our alternative students. Go ahead and take them to Impact Academy and let's see how they do.
TEXT> They all graduated.  I'm not going to say that there weren't days where you're like, oh, okay, that's some colorful language we're using right now. But they did all graduate. They all went to  internships, they all did  self-evaluation self plans, and they, you know, were successful in the in the program that we ran. And I think that that's really kind of what Ben was thinking for me to kind of touch on is the students that we look at are those ones that are really disengaged. The personal learning plans that are youth driven is a real big, like, what are you thinking about your life? Not me. You what do you want to see for yourself? And then they're really creating those goals. And they're really learning about that work readiness piece. And they have an internship. So I would be working with a community. I already have a meeting set up  with hyperthermia. They're super excited to hopefully be able to, you know, work with us and have because they've got an amazing program up there.  I've got phone calls all around. We had lots of different community members and agencies that worked with us so that, so that these students could have that experience going out there and really learning. What does it mean to be appropriate when you're there?
NEXT> Lee Malloy: What does it mean to have appropriate dress attire? What does it mean to ask questions? Communicate perseverance, conflict resolution. So all of those are embedded into the program that

[15240-46] Lee Malloy | Special educator newly hired for Stevens High School and the proposed  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Lee Malloy: any of these ellos. And it's it's really all about how can they receive credits while also working on themselves and preparing for that, going out into the real world, that what's the next step in their life and preparing for that work readiness piece?
TEXT> And so that that's a big that's a big portion of it. When it looks at.  We would be looking at a  bulk I mean, obviously because we have the 27, 23 and 20 credit that we could be looking at a lot of these kids looking at their 20 degree, you know, the 20 credit,  diploma in which they could potentially all of this working together,  in English, where they're looking at the writing structure  and that is based off of we have a ton of community partners that come in  and do presentations and talk to them. We have,  people coming in to do interviews, so they actually have to dress appropriately and have interviews not by peers, but by actual  community members doing those interviews every time somebody comes in. They're writing a thank you letter about what did they learn? And we're mailing that off, teaching them, how do we write these letters? Or it might be an email. How do we appropriately write emails? How do we respond? How do we say thank you to people?  We have the mathematics. We do a huge piece on personal finance. You know, having banks come in talking about credit scores, talking about banking. How do we open up that, then even pass that? Okay. Do we have an ID to be able to open up  a bank account.
NEXT> Lee Malloy: So we have a personal finance piece that can be embedded in we have a computer, you know, technology of course, because we have everything we're doing is a lot

[15240-57] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: No, no.
TEXT> Okay. The,  I'll try my best to go through the pros and cons of each location from my approximation, and I'm certainly not the end all be all with this.  The high school  is a viable location from a space perspective. However, the research shows, and those that have been in education know that having alternative students in a in a high school setting typically leads to the failure of the program in pretty short order. So I think that in my conversation with Chris Pratt today, he couldn't be here if we were to go with the high school as a location for this program,  we would likely be looking at a delayed start or perhaps revisiting the program structure,  as it currently, as it currently stands, we want to we want to make sure that we set our our students up for success. But it is an option.  The tech center is certainly an option. There's a history of it being here at the tech center that I believe is going to receive the most discussion tonight.  And again, my, I guess my my recommendation, if you will,  is that if we are to house it at the tech center, that it's done on a one year basis, especially being mindful of the,  the need to renovate or the desire to renovate in the future.
NEXT> Ben Nester: The other option is an off campus lease. And, Mr. Kosky did a little bit of research today. Do you mind sharing briefly on what that may look like? Sure.

[15240-64] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member - the address that opens her own first q | 2023-08-09
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: No specific questions at this time.
TEXT> So, Ben. One basic question I have is the,  kind of the profile of the student for the program.  And I think it's confusing because there are so many needs that are trying to be addressed. And, and, I think that when we use the term alt ed, yeah.  Some people conjure up a certain view. I think that,  when we have a student retention program, that's something different,  or  special education needs,  that's something else yet again. And, while I so I'm really curious to see what's what are we looking at?  And, and part of the question is, I know that the board has asked,  the special ed to, to develop programs to bring students from out of district places back into the district. This program does not do that. Is that is that my I mean, this what I hear you say is that it is a student retention program. It is for its to keep students in school,  and to make sure they graduate. It's not it's not for special ed needs in particular,  as the target audience. It's not all  of Ed, whatever that might be. I mean, right, alternative Ed to me means that it is. It's sort of like an alternative out of district placement. And what I hear you say, it's  it's major focus is on student retention. That's. So if you could address which it is that would be helpful.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah. You're you're you're right. It's the focus is on dropout prevention is the way I would describe it. You know that's I think that's the most compelling reason. Reason

[15240-72] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - the chair sets t | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: Right. But you know the focus is on dropout prevention okay. Yeah.
TEXT> So a second question I have is, is,  if it's, if it's retention that we're focusing on and, and some of these kids have exhibited some behavior that is not appropriate for the standard classroom.  And, and I hear that those students don't like to go to the current high school because of whatever bad vibes, whatever.  I'm wondering how the program can be successful at half of the day is spent at the high school, because that's what it looks like. I mean, if, if, if this,  program,  were were to be housed here, the student would be at the high school for, I mean, not all the time because they'd be on work study. They, you know, be other placements, but but to get the other courses, they would indeed have to function at the high school.
NEXT> Ben Nester: No, they that that that that would be not our vision.

[15240-85] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - the chair sets t | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: What that is. It's an online online program that that allows students to take all of their required courses for graduation to earn a diploma.
TEXT> It's okay. So falling up on that. Yeah.  So my understanding is that the kids that we're talking about are kind of challenged. Lack of focus, perhaps.  My concern is,  how can they if if self-motivation is a problem and self-control is a problem, and that's why they can't fit into the traditional. Right? I'm having a hard time understanding how having the focus and the maturity to engage online, how that works, I can't imagine. I can't envision how that kid who is sort of out of control, can can work on a self-motivated online program.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah. Frank. Frank might be able to take that.

[15240-87] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - Nester defers to him for program  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah. Frank. Frank might be able to take that.
TEXT> Let me jump in. Okay. Yeah.  You're not describing accurately the kids that we're talking about.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Well, that's why that was.

[15240-89] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - Nester defers to him for program  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Candace Crawford: Well, that's why that was.
TEXT> One, right? So the kids, the kids in question are  really school phobic kids, which is. And they're not a disruption. They're just invisible. Kids.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That I heard him say that it was some disruptive problems.

[15240-94] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - the chair sets t | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: just greater opportunity for that student to, to focus. Whereas when you're in a classroom of 25 students, there's a greater level of independence required, to, to be in a typical high school setting. So these are students that need a higher degree of facilitation.
TEXT> So talk to me about,  I'm trying to get a concept of if the kids are uncomfortable at the high school. How is if it were to be here, how is this setting more acceptable? Because this is a public school that looks like a public school that functions like a public school.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, right.

[15240-110] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Got it. Being that this is a public school as well. Got it. Versus a traditional high school.
TEXT> It it comes with the innate structure of the program itself. So small class size. Right. We know that's best for students. The, the half day right is certainly, certainly more advantageous or more desirable for many students.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So that could be anywhere. I mean, if, if, if a half day small class that could be at the high school as well as here. Because if you're talking

[15240-123] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - Nester defers to him for program  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: Frank, feel free to jump in here with any of your some.
TEXT> Of the target population  are  our students with with children,  that require extra flexibility in their day. So these would be
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: So the young adults.

[15240-160] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member - the start of her own sentence, 'My que | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah, sure.
TEXT> My question. Is less about location.  It sounds like these are students who are not invested in their own learning. And we want to find a program, opportunities for them to become invested in order to be successful. But my question is, what other support will be there for those students?  Career counselor? In addition to the work that we will be doing and the power, will there be additional supports?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Hopefully the the way the program is, is structured or funded now, there wouldn't be additional, support personnel on site every day. You know, we the program would have to

[15240-165] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay.
TEXT> And have parents, are you what's your plan for notifying parents and families about the program of the students who would be part of this?
NEXT> Ben Nester: It would be. So again, we haven't we haven't taken any formal steps in that regard. But it would be a, you know, a sit down with, with Mr. Pratt

[15240-166] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And have parents, are you what's your plan for notifying parents and families about the program of the students who would be part of this?
TEXT> It would be.  So again, we haven't we haven't taken any formal steps in that regard. But it would be a,  you know, a sit down with, with Mr. Pratt and the guidance counselor and, and, and the teacher of the program and describe the parent. Describe to the parent, you know, what the program looks like, what the structure is. And, you know, essentially recommend that to, you know, to the, to the student and the and the parent.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Okay. Thank you Frank.

[15240-168] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - Nester defers to him for program  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Okay. Thank you Frank.
TEXT> All right. So I'm going to kind of piggyback on what  what Arlene just said, because it would be nice to bring some kids back from out of district if, if appropriate.  And again I similar question that kids that get sent out of district get sent out of district because they have some need that we can't provide here within the mainstream. So there's some other service that they're receiving wherever they are. And so the concern I also have the concern if we try to bring them back without those services being readily available, that that's problem, I think problematic, unless we can, you know, certify that whatever it was. They've, they've overcome whatever that was. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm going to piggyback on that just for a second. I've got a few questions. Sorry. We had received a friend of the court,  letter from Jane Bergeron a while back, and it was in regard, if you recall, to the students are out of district and the state's unwillingness to pay past their majority. Yes.  Simply because the parents didn't want them to come back. So leading into that, are these kids that were thinking about bringing back? Are they they students? Are they residential.
NEXT> Ben Nester: All day.

[15240-179] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yes. That a certification of the teacher. What what are we looking for in a certification? And do we have a certified teacher?
TEXT> We? Yeah, we I believe that we should look at a general special education teacher because they have the background to sort of broadly view a child's needs and profile. And then we rely on the content of teachers for the content.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so is Miss Malloy. Are you certified in special ed?

[15240-207] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes this special meeting (segment | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: transport students, which we have to do in some cases because of capacity of our own garage, you're looking at a, you know, 20 to $50,000 bill annually just to just to get the student to school them back over the course of a year.
TEXT> Before we open for discussion. I just want to take a moment to kind of condense what we talked about here. So before we have our discussion all working with the same information. So I wrote some notes and everybody jump in if you if what I heard is something different. So what I heard is the program is ready to start. Now  if we have it at the technical center, our options other than this space is the high school,  which would have a delayed start if it was to go to the high school, delayed start if we were to lease another building or structure,  preference. It's preferred at this time to start the program here for one year. The reason having at this school or at the tech center is because the environment is more conducive to the students needs that this program is targeting. As far as school aversion is that.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And there's a track record of program being.

[15240-210] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - the chair sets t | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: the program. Is there anything else that anybody here thinks I'm missing? Supports will be available from the high. School in the district. That are already in the district to support the students. Is there any other any other information that I think I'm missing?
TEXT> One of one of my concerns is I understand that some of these students are. Have disruptive behavior at the high school. Is that a fair description, Ben?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Disruptive in the sense that, they're often not available for learning. They're in the classroom. They're found wandering the halls, you know, so, you know, it depends on how you

[15240-211] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Candace Crawford: One of one of my concerns is I understand that some of these students are. Have disruptive behavior at the high school. Is that a fair description, Ben?
TEXT> Disruptive in the sense that, they're often not available for learning. They're in the classroom. They're found wandering the halls, you know, so, you know, it depends on how you define disruptive, right. Is is disruptive throwing a chair. Right. No, I wouldn't say that. I would describe that as a property destruction, but it's maybe the more accurate way to describe it would be low level, low level disruption, meaning their entering and exiting the classroom with too much frequency and,  you know, going to the bathroom and spending too much time in there, you know,  too much time on the phone using Myspace or whatever the kids are using these days.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: So.

[15240-242] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> I not I would have to look through every kid to tell you with certainty, but I would say that, almost certainly they have not taken a CTE course. And reason being as a ninth and 10th grader, your schedule is pretty much canned, right? You need to get through your core courses so you can earn a diploma, and only when you can start to tick off some of those core courses can you then enter a tech course. And what we see is that many of our students are struggling. You know, this profile targeting, they may have failed English or math once or twice already. And so whereas a non failing student would have time in their schedule to sort of jump into a tech one course, you know, or a tech two. And there's pre prerequisites that Alex is more familiar with than I am. You know then they would be able to start taking tech courses. So it's the it's the failures that are the the primary barrier to having these students take tech courses which they would thrive in. You know, many of them. So it's.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[15240-246] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; a realtor - Sprague asks 'is it a confl | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: I yeah.
TEXT> My question is you had said that, would I write it down here?  The children are not disruptive or are  are  throwing a chair is not disruptive. That ruins property, but it's not disruptive. And so I'm trying to figure out how you could say it's not disruptive. If I was in a classroom and a kid threw a chair, I'd be a nervous wreck. So how could I focus as a person when that's going on?
NEXT> Unidentified: No, I. So I.

[15240-304] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any in favor?
TEXT> I have a question about moving kids who are being moved from the high school now to here, and then in another year, moving them somewhere else if need be. What is the impact on those students?
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[15240-307] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - Nester defers to him for program  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I'm just asking.
TEXT> I'll just speak to that because that actually happened. We had a, a location downtown in the Goddard Block Ombudsman. Then we we ran our own program. We moved it here and there was no impact at all. The kids were able. It's the same staff, the kids, where they are  as far as I mean, it's important. Like Jen said, all the research says it needs to be in a different location other than their, their age peers. But what's really, really important to the staff, the relationship with the staff.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And I understand that.

[15240-309] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - Nester defers to him for program  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And I understand that.
TEXT> So as long as the staff is the same, the kids will be fine, okay.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Anyone opposed to this motion like to speak?

[15240-340] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - the chair add | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Doctor Herzog or who would like to start I'm sorry I thought I. Thought. I apologize to him.
TEXT> Good evening. And thank you for taking the time to meet tonight to talk about this issue. I want to start by saying that I'm not opposed to an all tied program. I think it's got some merit. I think my five years experience in here, I think there's students that can really benefit from it, I really do.  Some of those students really thrive in CTE. A couple of information points.  To take a CTE program, you have to be in 10th grade. There are prerequisites and that we work with  Miss Ryans and the other counselors to make sure that they have those.  You know, we struggle filling some of our classes because some of our students can't even do basic fractions. And that and that is hard. So we have Math Mondays. So we we try to work with these students.  When I came here, 2018, Pat Barry put the principal currently or she was at as a chess put the program back. It was an  editor program she put upstairs. And that lasted a month and a half. Maybe.  Probably maybe not the right staff.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Not sure what, but I got lots of complaints from the preschool teachers witnessing the students that the young people they're bringing in, witnessing these bad behaviors, the kids were

[15240-341] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - the chair add | 2023-08-09
PREV> Alex Herzog: When I came here, 2018, Pat Barry put the principal currently or she was at as a chess put the program back. It was an editor program she put upstairs. And that lasted a month and a half. Maybe. Probably maybe not the right staff.
TEXT> Not sure what, but I got lots of complaints from the preschool teachers  witnessing the students that the young people they're bringing in, witnessing these bad behaviors, the kids were spitting on the other students coming in, giving us a bat. So students from the high school that were taking tech classes didn't want to come in. Now, I understand this program was supposed to be different, right? But there's no guarantees in regards. To that. Other things. I spent some time looking for the research. I keep hearing research. Research. I see anecdotal evidence that says, yeah, probably makes sense that it's not in the school. But Mr. Tempesta said in an administrative meeting, once that's a privilege. Then if they take them off campus, they should be in school. And I recall that,  I can't prove it. And he's not here to argue against it. But I remember hearing that, and I and maybe. Frank, I know your experiences are.
NEXT> Unidentified: Some stuff, okay?

[15240-343] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - the chair add | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: Some stuff, okay?
TEXT> And that's it. Because I looked online and I dug a little bit, I couldn't find any definitive research that said it needs to be away from the high school. But if we're here at the tech center, aren't we really the high school? 95% of my students come from Stevens High School. So, you know, the concern with the disruption, the concern with the students that are coming in from the owls, you know, right now, my intro classes are all full for the fall,  so I don't see them being able to take the intro classes. And many of these students probably not old enough or have the prerequisites to start taking the plumbing course, which is the number one course I want to fill in the machine tool. So there's there's those  concerns from my side. But like I said, you know,  the research I didn't didn't quite see that.  So I don't know. But it seems to make sense. It's logical that maybe go down that. Right. You know, the tech center should be a privilege for students that really want to go into the career fields. We work hard to make sure they get those experiences, that we get employers to come in. And like I said, I'm not opposed to this,  but why not the high school?
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Why can't it be there? I hear, well, there's research. Well, I'm not getting a definitive answer on that. And so that's something that we really need to think about.

[15240-354] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> We're really looking at kids that could absolutely earn a diploma. And so when we think of having a two paraprofessionals and their to support all the kids.
NEXT> John Lambert: Can they practice, can they participate in the tech without being disruptive and, and safe behavior. And that's very, very a problem. You know, another thing is the student that's

[15240-362] John Lambert | Substitute teacher at the technical center - the start of his own sent | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: and I think there are excellent educators. But, you know, I'm of the mindset that, you know, let's see how the roofers do on a couple other roofs before we bring them in to do my roof. So I'm sure they're going to do fine.
TEXT> I was just. Concerning about the population might be better served somewhere else that already has the program going. That sounds pretty good. They were recognized statewide for for the projects that they're doing as one of the stars.  I have seen student success at tech programs with  work co-op opportunities. You know, the students are engaged and and they complete high school. And I've seen successes where that student wouldn't have completed high school academically because there was nothing of interest to them. But they were in a technical program. They arranged a work co-op after school, and they excelled. The employer loves them, their heart. They graduated last year and they're working full time and  what a great opportunity. Tech programs are  a terrific opportunity for students that you know are hyperactive and not focused. And I don't want to be here. And I think if there's a program in the school, you would you would have to require them to at least get some CTE exposure. Yeah. Whether it fits or not, let them make that decision and assist them with math and English skills. In this low, classroom size, you can't if it's a student that's having a problem.
NEXT> John Lambert: Learning an online program is not going to do it. You have to have some interaction with that student, not just focused on the two. That isn't going to happen,

[15240-365] Mimi Rhines | Ward 1 resident; school counselor at Stevens High School entering her  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much. Mr.. In the back. And I can come back to you, sir. Yes, please. Just for school. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi, guys.  Mimi Ryan's ward one. So I'm going into my eighth year at Stevens as a counselor. So I've also kind of lived through the various versions. I guess I will turn up programing  much with Ben Nester.  And one part that he touched a little bit was near the end of the merge of the owls and the alt behavior program that happened. They did come back to the high school. They did try this at the high school and it went terribly. They had them in a room just like you guys talked about with staff, kind of, you know, tucked away.  And it didn't go well because they were they were in a building with their peers everywhere, you know, and they were it just it did not go well. And so I, I don't know if this was the right location for the program. I am inclined to say, you know, test it out for a year and see what happens. Honestly, because I it did go well when it was here previously,  but I, I really do not think the high school was the best location.  Just in terms of the students that have been brought up with going to the program, I think I think they need a clean slate, so to speak.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: And even though this building is part of the high school, yes, it is a clean slate in their minds. For them, it's a new location, it's a new staff,

[15240-369] David Putnam | Ward 2 resident and Tech Center Visioning Committee participant - self | 2023-08-09
PREV> David Putnam: and I would do other work in the community and other boards, when we see a list of issues that hinder or handicap efforts that we're making, we try to find ways of overcoming those issues so that we can continue working and moving forward.
TEXT> So that would be my recommendation, trying to make it work in the high school. There has to be specific reasons why in what what are the answers to fixing those reasons? Because if we do the renovation here and I really feel we're going to I'm committed to working on it. Then you are going to have to move it someplace and cost effectively wise, the high school would be the most economical way to do it for the community. I don't have any idea what the Frank Bush Music Center rent would be.  But that would be a great resource also. But it would just cost us some extra money.  I'm very curious about how you would assess the progress of the students,  and report on that so that we would understand the progress we're making helping these students achieve successes in their young lives. I know in this handout from the state, they have different  expectations for how success is going to be reported, but it doesn't give any rubrics on what they expect with that success. And and I think that that's important for the board to recognize so that you understand what you're supporting and what the fruits of your labor are. That that would be very important if I were on the board. And that's about all I have right now. Thanks.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you, thank you. Sir.

[15240-378] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - Nester defers to him for program  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So it was not, didn't enjoy anywhere near the success that,  on owls did when when it was as high as  20 to 25% of the graduating class for kids, the kids that normally would have dropped out were  making up a pretty good percentage of the graduating class. So yeah, that was a completely different program. I'm trying to think of what Holt called that, but do you remember, Dave?
NEXT> Unidentified: That I was.

[15240-388] Deb | Ward 3 resident and former Stevens High School teacher - self-identifi | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Last one,  I'm assuming that a smaller environment with more staff available to the students will create,  hopefully create some relationships so that any behavior problems will be greatly diminished from what they would might those students might see in a regular classroom. But should something happen and the teacher in that classroom need some administrative support, who is that person? Is that Alex? Or do they call down and then see if Chris is available? How does that how does how do we get an administrator to that room to help out if if help is needed?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[15240-399] Derek | Ward 3 resident and member of the Tech Center Visioning Committee - se | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. Derek from Ward three. Also a member of the Tech Center Visioning Committee. Yeah. Thanks to echo Alex's comments. Thanks for having a special meeting to discuss this single issue.  I want to start with just a couple clarifying questions. If I. Could. So with the intent for the students who are eligible in terms of pre Rex, and if there are slots available  with the intent be to integrate those students into the existing CTE classes with the other, I guess, for lack of a better term, traditional students from the school, or would there be standalone CTE offerings that would be more tailored for the alt ed program?
NEXT> Ben Nester: In in in my mind, they would be integrated in okay and perhaps boost our enrollment here, which would be a potential added bonus.

[15240-406] Unidentified | Brief interjection, assent or backchannel - the diarizer pooled roughl | 2023-08-09
PREV> Derek: Assuming that they're I guess, okay with it. Right. Because that would have to be at a mutual decision right.
TEXT> To their student.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah.

[15240-422] Derek | Ward 3 resident and member of the Tech Center Visioning Committee - se | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: There's.
TEXT> All right you can start the watch I think we'll be less than that. I think there's great potential here.  One of the opportunities I had five years ago, I had a couple of tours at the Hartford Tech Center and the the principal up there, Doug Heaviside, had a really wonderful term, and I think I've used it at school board meeting. Some of you may have heard me use it. The few kids the definition of a nephew kid is you ask how their day is going and their response is F you.  He loved those kids as potential CTE, not just students that survive and graduate by the skin of their teeth, but superstars. The young lady that gave the presentation to the group I was with was in their natural resources department. She was polished, she was charismatic, she was wonderful. And when it was all done and she had left the room, Doug said, she was one of my original few kids. So those those were very powerful anecdotes. I mean, it was five years ago, but I recall I probably used that example a million times in the five years since.
NEXT> Derek: So if there's going to be a strong CTE component, I could really see some value for the district with the graduation rates for these individuals and their future success

[15240-424] Derek | Ward 3 resident and member of the Tech Center Visioning Committee - se | 2023-08-09
PREV> Derek: support this if it jeopardized any of the renovation funding. And I'll tell you, we've asked that question, I think, no less than 900 times as part of the visioning Committee. And I think if you getting an answer like putting your thumb on Mercury.
TEXT> So good luck. But I do agree with  Whitney. And if you can get a straight answer that you can have some credence. And I think that would be a very, very important question to to understand the total impact, if any, of the funding of the renovation and then no disruptions to the rest of the CTE program. Again, however, we define disruptions because I think that would be doing a disservice to the rest of the students that were trying to get through CTE education. But,  and maybe, maybe if there is another location, but it still includes integrating them with CTE, well, then then it's just a matter of transporting them here, just like you do from the kids, from the, you know, the main Stevens campus. So I do think it's worth a try if we can reach those few kids. There's a lot of goodness that can come from this, but it has to be very, very deliberately planned out. Again, I'm not telling anything you don't know.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But thank you, Derek.

[15240-427] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - thanking Derek again (ASR 'Dirk'); Der | 2023-08-09
PREV> Derek: Anyway, thank.
TEXT> You, thank you, thank you. Dirk. Just for the board and the community to know that I did reach out to Matt Upton, the district attorney,  and asked him to give us an official legal opinion on what the impact of having non-compliant,  programs are in this building. He was unable to  expedite it in a fashion that would make it, in his opinion,  a valid legal opinion for this meeting. But Ben and Mr. Davis and myself felt that it was in the best interest of the district to continue to have this discussion tonight knowing that that was coming.  So just so everyone knows, he's been charged with digging around, getting the RSA, talking to the people that he needs to talk to to give us an official legal opinion. Okay, Andy. And then he just popped up two seconds faster.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'll fight you for it.

[15240-429] Andy | Ward 3 resident and member of the Tech Center Visioning Committee - se | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: I'll fight you for it.
TEXT> Andy, your Ward three.  First of all, I want to applaud Ben and the district for  this effort to meet the needs of these kids. There's. This is a no brainer. I mean, we have struggled with these problems for years. And through these various mechanism owls and some of these other things, you know, we've we've tried to to address this. So thank you very much. The concern I think tonight for a lot of folks is potential for encroachment on CTE. As the member of the Vision Committee, our concern, of course, is through that lens. And the committee is doing the work of the community who has expressed its concern for a strong and robust facility best used. That said, I understand the position that the district may be in because we have multiple competing interests when it comes to education and finances and budgeting and all those things. So I know everybody's trying to do a balancing act and I appreciate that. I just want to remind both the,  the board and the community that we're about to embark on a significant study about the future of this facility and the fact that one of the options that you've presented is a temporary location of these students, and that the numbers of students aren't what I would have considered much more  a much bigger number.
NEXT> Andy: I, I would again, I think, tiptoe into that same decision, but I'm just concerned for two things. Number one, that the that the existing programs aren't necessarily disrupted in

[15240-444] Lee Malloy | Special educator newly hired for Stevens High School and the proposed  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Lee Malloy: a high school teacher. And while there's a student that constantly just gets up and walks out of the room or won't put their phone away or won't stop talking to somebody, and when you're like, hey, this is what's going on, it's forget this.
TEXT> You know, this is stupid. Those are the disruptions. Those are the that's a that's a big piece of our profile that we're looking at. Is that particular. We will be identifying support plans in there to help them move along. The other piece. When we look at this really big CTE piece, which I know is huge and I would never want to compromise anything to do with here, ever, ever, ever. I would love to see because so much of what I do is work readiness. It is work readiness. It's getting ready. Can this somehow and you guys know this better than I do? Okay. Can this somehow  be a program that's in there for those kids that are like, forget this, forget that, this work readiness that can still be in the building and it's preparing them where they're going out to those work studies. So we've got that work piece in there that then they're ready to move on to taking those CTE courses when they're older. That's kind of like a big grand goal, right? For me, because that's what I do really well, is taking those kids that are the forget this, getting them into work, getting them ready for all that, while still earning their credits.
NEXT> Lee Malloy: But absolutely, I don't want to disrupt this school. That is not anything that I would ever want to happen. Which is why Ben and I have talked extensively about

[15240-445] Lee Malloy | Special educator newly hired for Stevens High School and the proposed  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Lee Malloy: when they're older. That's kind of like a big grand goal, right? For me, because that's what I do really well, is taking those kids that are the forget this, getting them into work, getting them ready for all that, while still earning their credits.
TEXT> But absolutely, I don't want to disrupt this school. That is not anything that I would ever want to happen. Which is why Ben and I have talked extensively about that. It's why we're starting really small. So I just kind of wanted to answer a few of those, just knowing some and just letting you guys know sort of where I stand. And absolutely, like, I would never want to jeopardize anything with the tech center ever, ever.  But what my hope is, is that this could be a great filter for preparing those kids that would otherwise may not get that opportunity, you know? So thank you. I know it's like you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is there any objection to closing discussion?

[15240-458] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you Scott.
TEXT> I just have a very quick question, if I may. I think I heard,  Alex say that the excuse me, the intro classes are already at Max. Will our students be able to take the CTE classes if the intro classes are already maxed out?
NEXT> Ben Nester: I don't want to speak for me, me and Guidance or Alex, but I'm going to suggest that semester one know that we'd be we'd be targeting semester two, perhaps

[15253-21] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative (Croydon; House Education Funding)  | 2023-08-16
PREV> Hope Damon: It's a proxy nationally. This isn't anything unique to New Hampshire or Claremont, but the New Hampshire state budget is now weighing it heavier. The state aid, as Miss Henry has informed two weeks ago, is based on the numbers of the prior school year.
TEXT> So the funding for 2324, starting imminently, is based on the 2223 school year, and then obviously 2425 will be based on this school years numbers. So, as was just noted, getting the full number of eligible students enrolled in between now and October 1st is critical to the funding for next year, and the extraordinary needs amount goes up from 8500 to 11 five for every student on for  in subsequent years. So it keeps mattering more as we go forward. Also, there are a number of federal title programs  that use free and reduced lunch in their formula to calculate the amount of a grande. I believe title one is one of them. We didn't use any of those numbers in this presentation, but we just wanted to note that there is additional benefit in that regard. And then there is all kinds of solid and decades old actually documentation that food insecurity increases behavioral issues versus children who are consistently and reliably fed have less behavioral challenges. And I always frame that if you think about your own self, all of us have been hungry. We're not necessarily food insecure, but when you're hungry, you get irritable, you get impatient. You don't think straight things need to be repeated. It doesn't go well. Well, it's the same for these kids, and particularly in the math area, scores are lower,  substantially lower in kids who are food insecure compared to those who are not.
NEXT> Hope Damon: How do we get to the next one? So this slide, most of this information is from New Hampshire Hunger Solutions, which is a wonderful New Hampshire nonprofit that's working

[15253-32] Gary Merchant | New Hampshire State Representative for Sullivan District 6 (Claremont  | 2023-08-16
PREV> Gary Merchant: It's about $4,000. But remember, if we get over one, one student gets over that magical number. That's $10,800. Now you may have to spend $404,000 to get that amount of money, but that's the first student. So that's what we have in Miss Henry.
TEXT> We do have look, on behalf of all the parents of students, thank you. And the data here is in the slides, if you want to go and look for the data, it's for you as well. Okay.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much for taking the time as being the energy into this. It's greatly appreciated by the board and the community and I'm sure the administration as well.

[15253-60] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School administrator - self-identifies at segment 113 | 2023-08-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: No, I don't I don't have the summary sheet.
TEXT> Okay. That was sent. I don't. Remember seeing  the summarize change. It just highlights what was changed from the prior. I mean I did I did read the whole everything that all the changes are in the handbook from that.  We were made aware today that there were some questions regarding the dress code, related to how ours compares to Stephen's. Obviously Frank Romeo, the principal at the middle school, is not here today. And he would be the final word on that. I did kind of go through this evening and put together a comparison of the two. Most of the items in CMS dress code align with those of Stephen's in just different spots. There's some that  are more specific on the Stephen's side, some are more specific on the CMS side. Some of them are specific to like one of them  is specific to the middle school because we have 1 to 1 lockers for our students and the high school does not. So there there's some of the changes that were in there. I don't know if you want comments.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Dress codes on page 39. Thank you.

[15253-80] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School administrator - self-identifies at segment 113 | 2023-08-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: to broaden as the students get older, because they're more independent in their thinking and the types of decision making and consequences. But having it be something that is built upon as the students go through, rather than having a myriad type number of programs.
TEXT> So I will say the advisory piece is completely separate. Advisory is first thing in the morning with our students. That is about making relationships and connections with teachers and students. It's where we work with students on remembering to look at their grades and stay up to date on their assignments and,  some social emotional learning pieces.  Is.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: There a program that is put into place during advisory that has specific topics that are.

[15253-136] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School administrator - self-identifies at segment 113 | 2023-08-16
PREV> Bonnie Miles: Okay. Okay.
TEXT> Thank you. And I would add to that, that these kind of replace the old at one point it was called guidelines. You know, the kind of tracks it was at one point it's been called a myriad of different names. But that room where any kid that was in trouble got sent to that room. And so  middle schoolers being what they are, I have a buddy in seventh grade. I got a buddy in sixth grade. Hey. And you know, in third block, you do this so you can get. So it kind of cut that out. They couldn't play that little game.  And it really did help flatten a lot of the behaviors.  They worked more closely with the grade level teams having the academic centers as opposed to having guidelines, tracks, whatever it was in the past. And I think the kids even really saw it more as a partnership and less of a naughty room, if you will. And so I think that helped.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Yeah.

[15254-82] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board member - the chair recognis | 2023-08-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Oh, Frank. Oh, Jen.
TEXT> Okay.  Thank. You for putting this together. I just wanted to. Angela mention one thing that I noticed in the open ended comments  that I think I should call attention to for everybody watching.  One respondent wrote that I think the district needs positive PR  for CMS to help the public see the wonderful things students and staff are doing at the school. I couldn't agree more with that sentence. The parents also need to be told that they need to treat school employees with respect, because most that I came across did not. I have never been sworn at so many times in my life than in my one year at CMS by parents, as a parent in this district. I find that statement to be absolutely appalling, and I think we should all do better because our children are watching us and we can't tell them to treat people with respect when we're not modeling that.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you. Thank you. Very good.

[15254-101] Unidentified | SAU 6 Board member - unprompted question on the exit-interview packet  | 2023-08-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: the middle on the right. All right. Yeah. Okay. I'm glad we have that. I wish more people would respond, but I get it because people will do that to me all the time. What was your service like? Oh, yeah. Okay, throw it out.
TEXT> So,  I have a question. Yeah.  So  at one of the, at the top where it says,  what did you least like about your job? And then it goes into lack of resources within the department, like, not enough special educators of Paris. And I know that children with IEPs often are identified to have one on one pairs. And the lack of pairs in the classroom. You know,  I know federally is a problem because every child has an IEP and they need to meet their federal recommendations for a child to have a one on one. So I guess I'd like to know how that's being addressed for those children and how we're working on to bring in pairs,  at a pay where they're able to stay in the district and support children  with these needs that they have.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Good. Ask Ben to answer that.

[15254-104] Unidentified | SAU 6 Board member - unprompted question on the exit-interview packet  | 2023-08-17
PREV> Ben Nester: been public about this, but we've we've had several meetings and Angela was in the with the Teamsters who now represent the union. And so we, you know, as an administrative team, have expressed interest in coming back to the table and renegotiating that contract.
TEXT> Yeah. It would be nice to see, you know, really us to focus on some increased salary for these pairs and these special educators, you know, with the increase in IEPs that we see in our district.  And that we have the support these kiddos needs so that if we ever were, you know, audited by the feds, that we're not going to get dinged because we didn't have the actual supports we need for these children in classes. And so that sticks out to me, because teachers can't be both. They can't be, you know,  special educators, and they can't be the pair as well if they're in a classroom alone with 4 or 5 children who have IEPs and they need to do one on one work with them, and,  you know, take time out of their day to address some of these concerns. And so, I guess my thoughts are, is to really advocate for some salary increases so that we can be competitive and bring in the supports our teachers need. You know, because it goes on to say that they're overworked. You know, and  and there's some challenges with them being overworked. And I wonder if some of that burnout has to do with the lack of supports in the classroom.
NEXT> Unidentified: And, you know, I'd advocate for, you know, really considering, you know, looking at those supports that these kiddos need because they're the ones that lacking, you know, these teachers

[15254-105] Unidentified | SAU 6 Board member - unprompted question on the exit-interview packet  | 2023-08-17
PREV> Unidentified: supports our teachers need. You know, because it goes on to say that they're overworked. You know, and and there's some challenges with them being overworked. And I wonder if some of that burnout has to do with the lack of supports in the classroom.
TEXT> And,  you know, I'd advocate for, you know, really considering, you know, looking at those supports that these kiddos need because they're the ones that lacking, you know, these teachers may be tired, but these kids with special needs are really, you know, lacking in what they they need under their IEPs.  And so that, for me is a huge proponent  as part of a solid foundation for some of these kids in the school district, is recognizing that, including unity. So I'm thinking as a whole.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Do we still have para openings at this point?

[15254-113] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member, appointed 7/19/23 - the chair recognise | 2023-08-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Candy. Just to.
TEXT> Reflect on that.  The  visioning committee, that was one of the things that we were looking at to have, a childhood education and training of the pairs at the as a CTE. Yeah.  And we were proposing to start that this year, which was and using the,  the kids that are here for the early. Yeah. The preschool. Thank you.  As kind of a lab for the training.  As part of that pair of program, which I think would be a nice fit. Lots of ways.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Yeah. Isn't that how that program used to run?

[15254-129] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member, appointed 7/19/23 - the chair recognise | 2023-08-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. Yeah I have the comments. Candy.
TEXT> I'd just like to  pick you back on Jen's comments.  I was really upset when I read,  the comment, and I think the public needs to be aware of this. I really dislike being aggressively sworn at and verbally assaulted by parents at CMS on a regular basis. We've heard a number of issues at the middle school regarding bullying, and I think as parents need to set a good example for our children. And,  I never want to see our employees being treated like that.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Any other comments? So I believe the purpose of implementing the exit interview was to take the data and help us with our goal setting and strategic planning and moving

[15254-328] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Board Chair (elected 7/13/23 over Marjorie Erickson on a show of | 2023-08-17
PREV> Mike Koski: Things, folks.
TEXT> I would like to take a minute and compliment the work that you've been doing. You haven't even been here a year. And I get a sense that things are moving forward. And I and I agree, I would like to get periodic updates as to how things are going and the organization that's falling into place. And I think that the team that's sitting here is really doing an excellent job, and I thank each and every one of you on behalf of the board.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I would hope. Yes, I agree.

[15286-77] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: We also posted it on the school website, the Facebook. We've emailed all parents. And we also, have forms that will be using and during our open house that will be on September 28th from 6 to 730 at Stevens High School, the open house.
TEXT> And we're really going to  do what we can to make sure that students feel  comfortable enough to fill out the forms will be there to assist them.  Myself and Courtney will also be putting out email that any parents who can't make it to open house or don't feel comfortable coming to the school, we're willing to bring the forms to them and help them film out at their house. So, we're trying to do everything we can to get the word out there and making an easy process, a non-threatening process, and also a confidential process. And I know sometimes  open houses aren't the most confidential, but we're hoping to  have it in spot where families can come in and feel safe to do so. With the assistance of many of us helping out fill out those forms. One of the bigger question,  what is going well, I guess it all depends who you talk to. I mean, the kids, I think in regards to the yonder phone rollout,  some of the questions that I've had in general is that initially when I looked into these phone pouches,  I submitted a grant, a title grant, and whatever reason, the state didn't approve it.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So I had to go back and tell John to saying, under the circumstances, I just don't have it in the budget, to do this. And they said, well, if

[15286-78] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: the kids, I think in regards to the yonder phone rollout, some of the questions that I've had in general is that initially when I looked into these phone pouches, I submitted a grant, a title grant, and whatever reason, the state didn't approve it.
TEXT> So I had to go back and tell John to saying, under the circumstances, I just don't have it in the budget,  to do this. And they said, well, if you're willing to continue with the program,  we're willing to because you're the first school in New Hampshire to undertake this, we're willing to grant you,  the product and help you out with the process. And that worked out to be probably a little over $11,000,  that we're able to do this program.  And so  the rollout with students, faculty and staff, everyone did a great job, especially the students. They come in the morning, all students have pouches. Will they have phones or not? They all have pouches. Some kids don't have phones. Some kids leave their phones at home. Majority of the kids  as they come in.  A bunch of us are there. They they they show us their pouch, and the phone is in it, and it's locked up before they enter the building. They keep the phone pouches on them, so we're not taking them with them.  We have a total of five stations in the lobby and another three stations that a portable that myself and the other two and the other two assistant principals were dispersed at the end of the day in different parts of the front of the building.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So we don't have backup. It really hasn't been a backup at all in regards to having kids come into school and leaving. Kids have been very impressed with the

[15286-79] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: have a total of five stations in the lobby and another three stations that a portable that myself and the other two and the other two assistant principals were dispersed at the end of the day in different parts of the front of the building.
TEXT> So we don't have backup. It really hasn't been a backup at all in regards to having kids come into school and leaving.  Kids have been very impressed with the level  of acceptance of doing this.  You walk around the school and I've heard from teachers and and staff and even some students that, you know, a couple students came talk to the teachers of myself and said they're learning more now if they didn't think they would like it, but they're actually learning more, there's less disruptions in the classes, teachers appreciating that they don't have to always worry about kids getting on their phones. I think the thing is, we understand is, is the the reason why we really did this. I mean, helping and taking away that distraction from education is only second to the reason why we did that and that safe and healthy schools. The reason I did this because over the last couple of decades, we've learned a lot about,  what we should be doing in schools in regards to keeping kids safe and some of the things that has gone wrong in all these unfortunate school events is that we've learned that phones can actually, really,  put us at odds when we're in a situation like that for many reasons.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Some of the things that take place is that intruders have been able to locate where students are in the building because phones are going off. They're able to locate

[15286-80] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: schools in regards to keeping kids safe and some of the things that has gone wrong in all these unfortunate school events is that we've learned that phones can actually, really, put us at odds when we're in a situation like that for many reasons.
TEXT> Some of the things that take place is that intruders have been able to locate where students are in the building because phones are going off. They're able to locate where people are in the building because of the social media and posted. It's also  when people have phones in the building, they're making calls out there, bringing more people to the area that's unsafe, not allowing to first responders to go about their first priority, which is,  getting to the students and and securing the area. So,  you know, I just wanted the board in the public know that's the main reason we're doing this in second, it is really creating  the atmosphere feels different at the high school, and I welcome any school board to come in any time you want to. And I'll walk you around and you can just take a look at  you can see that you go into the cafeteria. Now kids are actually talking at the tables.  You you're walking around the halls.  Before, there weren't a whole lot of kids in the hallway, but we did find that they were out longer than they needed to be.  We keep data. We know how long every kid is out of the classroom. We've seen the average time of being out of classroom to ten minutes gone down to like three.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: There's not any many kids using their hallway passes. There's a lot more engagement in the classroom with each other and with the teachers. And it's just great to see

[15286-81] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: we did find that they were out longer than they needed to be. We keep data. We know how long every kid is out of the classroom. We've seen the average time of being out of classroom to ten minutes gone down to like three.
TEXT> There's not any many kids using their hallway passes.  There's a lot more engagement in the classroom  with each other and with the teachers. And it's just great to see kids interaction interacting with each other in the hallways, in the classrooms during advisory.  So, you know, like I said, that's only second to the to the safety  that we now have at the school. Like I said, every kid gets a pouch. And even if the kids leave their phones at home, that's fine.  And they'll tell us that. And it's empty pouch. That pouch is really just kind of getting them through the door, because what we're trying to do is that kid, we we if we find pouches and we have,  that students are. Meet for whatever reason, they, they left them around. So we need to know what kids don't have their pouches. So in order to, to find out who they are. So coming in, if they don't have their pouch, we're able to identify who's pouches those are. But it's kind of like, using almost like a student ID to get in the building, whether you have a phone or not.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: All kids, they have their pouches. And it's been really good so far. We haven't had any students. The first day we had one student who didn't want to put

[15286-82] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: find out who they are. So coming in, if they don't have their pouch, we're able to identify who's pouches those are. But it's kind of like, using almost like a student ID to get in the building, whether you have a phone or not.
TEXT> All kids, they have their pouches.  And it's been really good so far. We haven't had any students.  The first day we had one student who didn't want to put it in the pouch. But beyond that, you know, you know what? Close to 500 kids. We haven't really had any problems.  We have not had, knock on wood, any vaping in the bathrooms at this point. I'm not saying this is all because of the phones. We're still on that honeymoon period,  but for right now it is adding a whole different level of,  change in the building with with kids and interactions that were all able to have with each other.  I said there was a huge increase in the social interactions, positive impact on building relationships, improving school climate in a positive way. And  we also on top of that, we continue to do the student recognition cards. And this year,  last year was the first year we did that. And it was a great success. But this year, what we're really trying to do, and we work with the teacher saying these cards are meant for the kids who usually fly under the radar, those kids who do what they're supposed to do every day.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So hoping that's going to increase the amount of cads. But we're recognizing those kids who don't get recognized. What we found last year is that they because it was

[15286-83] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: it was a great success. But this year, what we're really trying to do, and we work with the teacher saying these cards are meant for the kids who usually fly under the radar, those kids who do what they're supposed to do every day.
TEXT> So hoping that's going to increase the amount of cads. But we're recognizing those kids who don't get recognized. What we found last year is that they because it was our first year students, teachers were using them to, you know, they were recognizing kids what they were supposed to be doing, but it kind of was using it as almost like, there's a student who's been off task for a while and, oh, they were one day on task and they gave them a card, forgetting the kids, the other kids in the in the building who do that every day and weren't being recognized. So we're kind of shifting that a little bit in regards to how we use student recognition cards. And we keep track of that and healthy competition.  Right now, the the Red House, the beginning of the alphabet is reigning champs. And so the silver House will overtake. Try to overtake that. But  great house meetings. The kids  all had good questions. They were very respectful, which I'm never surprised that another thing that we're doing well is with three of us. We've really continued to use the discipline matrix as in a consistent level. We're to the point now after using it last year. Kids do come in, say this is why you call down. We have the conversation, we give them the matrix and say, so what does that mean?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And I think it really helps with the students where we're seeing that. They're seeing that we're not making different decisions for anyone based on who you are, what you

[15286-86] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: a little difficult. What I can tell you is that our numbers went down at least half of what they were over the previous year. And so that's why the state reached out to us and wanted to know if our numbers were reported accurately.
TEXT> So that's I think that's great news. It's it's showing growth  for the students and the teachers.  The other thing is what else are we doing? Well, I said, so this year we'll be working with the TLC Family Resource Center to begin a tobacco and nicotine intervention program.  And I will share the this document to you in Google Docs, because there is a link there that you can click on and look at the curriculum that we'll be doing. And this year, the advisories will stay together every day so we can incorporate these learning opportunities during advisory time, which is the 47 minutes we have every day. And so we're also working with Dartmouth-Hitchcock on a  vape program that will also be able to use advisories to educate students on various stuff. So those are the first two topics we'll be covered in advisory. And like I said once, do the Telc family resource, the other ones through Hitchcock and Youth camp. So we get a lot of community support coming into the schools, which is also great. Any unexpected challenges? I don't think we, you know, we haven't really seen any unexpected challenges, you know, but at the beginning of the school year, you know, we do encounter some challenges right now.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I think the biggest one we have is the heat in the building. And those buildings are the high school gets tremendously hot. I went around today and took temperature

[15286-87] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: community support coming into the schools, which is also great. Any unexpected challenges? I don't think we, you know, we haven't really seen any unexpected challenges, you know, but at the beginning of the school year, you know, we do encounter some challenges right now.
TEXT> I think the biggest one we have is the heat in the building. And those buildings are the high school gets tremendously hot. I went around today and took temperature and all the classrooms. Right now we're averaging probably around 11:00, 1030 to 11:00 today. The third floor by the windows were 110. The classrooms were 90. And that's not including humidity. And that was with the fans open in the doors open in some of the windows open second floor, you're looking between 88 and 90, without humidity. So the teachers are trying. The kids are trying,  can make people moody, but I think everyone's doing a great job keeping it together.  We're trying to get as much ventilation as we can in the building, but the problem is, the last few nights, we haven't been able to  suck the warm air out in the cold air. And because there really hasn't been any cold air. So that's been the biggest challenge right now, is dealing with the heat. I think it's at an unsafe level right now in the building.  The air is very  stagnant. It's muggy. The walls are actually, you know, sweating. So I think that's the the biggest,  if we would say unexpected challenge, at least for me.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Not, you know, my second year here being in the building. I already talked about how the how the, couches were being made for it's not coming out of our

[15286-91] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: actually go to the college and take their classes and freshmen would be, in the building with a person monitoring the online classes. So we were going to be able to still give students their education if we weren't able to fill those science positions.
TEXT> And we were lucky enough that we, like I said, hoping for the best, but planning for the worst. We did. We used it, wasn't  budgeted it. We had the money in there. We  used it for a study hall position because we needed that person for,  if we were going to do the online classes. We're still waiting for two of those science teachers to start sometime next week. So because we were able to add in all of our classes, curriculums and stuff into Odyssey, where which is our own program, these kids are able to use Odyssey where and printouts from the study hall and online stuff. So not even though the teachers aren't here, their education is still taking place. Let's see, how was the high? How was the high school? Accommodating conflicts and student scheduling for music? Chorus high level academics? Well, I mean, we have power. School runs about $100,000 of difference of scenarios in regards to maximize and school scheduling based on what we put in for,  restraints in the system. The past years, there's been a lot of  restraints put in.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So the the system was not able to utilize, the scheduling as that. We took out a lot of those restraints. So there are always some students who must make

[15286-95] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: the first one I'm looking at. Could the classes be longer. Yeah. They could, we could go up to I think right now with period schedule, we could go up to much as 58 minutes schedule. There are other things you have to look at.
TEXT> You know, with the 2023 and 27, you know, graduation credits need to have. Is that, what is it going to look like? How many, you know, and this would be a board decision would have to make, you know, if we decide to go with the period schedules, what does that look like in regards to how many classes kids must take to be fully enrolled? You know, I would, you know, my recommendation, like anything would be, you know, out of the eight periods kids would take seven because of the their we want them. We want them in class.  You know, but they could take up to six. But if they take in six, what does that leave them? That just leaves them in a study hall when they could be taken a class. So those are the roadblocks that, you know, down the road will have to look, look at as a team in regards to school team and the school boards and making some of these decisions. If you decide to change your schedule,  are there budget requirements being discussed in the high school budget prep? Not as of today. But, you know, we have time to do that.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And that's something that I think most administrators keep an eye on their budgets, and they look at what was spent last year to the previous year. You know, any

[15286-118] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Know, I want to thank my staff in my administration because I'm only as good as them. I look at myself as a systems manager. They're the ones on the ground doing the work, and all the credit goes to them because they're working hard and the kids are too. I mean, it's they're part of  creating  a great place, which Stevens High School is in. I think the we'll continue to grow in the community is supportive.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So thank you.

[15286-139] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah, we have some outcomes.
TEXT> The only thing I forgot to add is that we we have Excel, which is it's an online program and we have it for English, math, Spanish. And we have it for science, for lower level sciences. And  so that's a personalized learning that we, they, we give them their, initiative initial assessment. And then that creates their own kind of, their own learning plan in areas. And once a week they take a ten minute benchmark and it automatically gives them what they need to work on. That's good to bring up their score. And then teachers can also assign stuff to them also. And so we're also using advisory time for that. Kids are required to work on that. And teachers can also assign homework and also incorporate it into their lessons. So there's individualized learning plans for every kid in math, English, the kids who take Spanish and then the be like ninth grade science.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes, I did have a constituent citizen reach out and say that they were waiting for Chromebooks to go out. Is there anything we can tell the community about.

[15286-141] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes, I did have a constituent citizen reach out and say that they were waiting for Chromebooks to go out. Is there anything we can tell the community about.
TEXT> That today?  Most kids will have their Chromebooks as today. They can't hear you. Oh, sorry. Yeah, I checked on that today, and,  we're we're right on schedule. We had planned on getting all the Chromebooks out by the end of the week, or actually had a schedule. I think all the Chromebooks will finish being passed out today. I had a few parents reach out, and we were able to  give them some clarification in that. But the kids go into the Chromebooks, they're not going to be penalized for not being able to access some of their stuff at home,  so we took care of that. We have some Chromebooks we're looking at replacing, but I think as of today, everyone has their Chromebooks.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[15286-149] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - the board's de facto roll-calle | 2023-09-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: I think it's important that the community here is what said yes. So, if you would just you don't need to do word by word for word, but if you could paraphrase what the questions were. So it can be, you know.
TEXT> Yeah, I will. I'll  hit the high marks. And if I miss anything, I can circle. Back and so forth. So there was a question about the charter school and the potential of the the new program, the academy, we're calling it being housed at the charter school.  This is something that we've we've discussed internally, but not something we've formally approached the charter school about. It's not something that Chris and I discussed with them on the 25th. When we met there, we felt it was a little, you know, be preemptive to do that at this point. Talk to Mike Tempesta about this as well. The  the next question was, the number of students we identified for the new program. And. As  I go in my answer, I go on and say that, yes, we did look at that early in the spring.  As far as the logistics around the charter school, the  the charter school has set a cap for themselves at 20 students this at present time, due to lack of staffing to support the full 40 students that they're licensed for. They are licensed for 40 students grades 9 to 12. And last week or the 25th, when we met with the director, they have 13 students enrolled, 12 of which are high school Stevens High School students. And for the students have an IEP.  There's also some questions that came up about our obligation to the charter school, in particular financial obligations.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So I just want to offer clarity that the the only obligation the the district has is to provide special ed services to the students in the charter school. That's

[15286-150] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - the chair introduces 'the alter | 2023-09-06
PREV> Ben Nester: we met with the director, they have 13 students enrolled, 12 of which are high school Stevens High School students. And for the students have an IEP. There's also some questions that came up about our obligation to the charter school, in particular financial obligations.
TEXT> So I just want to offer clarity that the the only obligation the the district has is to provide special ed services to the students in the charter school. That's required.  But there is no financial obligation to to fund the school or pay tuition. The last piece we are we have a template of an MOU that was developed by the Department of Bad and other stakeholders. That is something that's required of subject school districts and public charter schools. So we have that. We're going to have that signed and you know, on file with the state. There's some  questions about partnership. You know, our view, in my view, Mr. Tempesta, view and others is we're thrilled that there's a charter school in town.  We see them as a partner, not as a competitor. We see that them as a real benefit to the community. And, you know, we look forward to to partnering with them.  You know, Kathy Pellerin I've known for. 8 or 9 years. She used to be, you know, more intimately involved with the district. And we were in regular contact. So we have a great, great working relationship already. I know Heather Shepherd from her time at Granite Hills School and have a working relationship with her. So, you know, personally, I'm looking forward to a really smooth  partnership with  with the new charter school.
NEXT> Ben Nester: There was a question about is there a duplication of efforts, meaning the charter school and the academy. And yes, to some degree, there's there's somewhat of a level of

[15299-128] David Ryan | Dr. David Ryan, outside facilitator hired by this board 8/17/23 at not | 2023-11-09
PREV> David Ryan: to negotiate a contract, obviously getting the input from folks in the front line, whether it be administration or or teachers, to understand what the impact of any type of negotiation in a contract is going to have on their ability to manage a school.
TEXT> And so just broadening and this goes across  the whole organization, broadening the opportunity for school district employees to participate at the table  in,  manageable, reasonable ways. So we're not going to ask every teacher to participate in every conversation every day that we have something. And so that's something that should be developed in  broadened as part of the communications program. So those three key results really touched on a lot of what was born out of the data that was provided to us. And so we want to ensure that  those are activities that can take place that would ultimately demonstrate that you are effectively communicating with the rest of the community. An objective number two student achievement.  Much of this was  was drawn from,  the the board's natural and the superintendents natural inclination to want to improve student learning and,  and time on learning. And so some of the key results that came through the information,  introducing research based strategies that replace or build upon, build upon existing programs and structures. This was language that was  developed using the superintendent's goals, particularly around here at this institution. Looking at how we can get more folks into  the early childhood education program, and I believe the nursing program as well.
NEXT> David Ryan: Key result to the Saw will review assessment data and provide longitudinal reports. So really talking publicly about how our our students doing in terms of standardized and any other

[15299-129] David Ryan | Dr. David Ryan, outside facilitator hired by this board 8/17/23 at not | 2023-11-09
PREV> David Ryan: upon, build upon existing programs and structures. This was language that was developed using the superintendent's goals, particularly around here at this institution. Looking at how we can get more folks into the early childhood education program, and I believe the nursing program as well.
TEXT> Key result to the Saw will review assessment data and provide longitudinal reports. So really talking publicly about how our our students doing in terms of standardized and any other type of benchmark assessments that we are administering and ensuring that we're sharing that with the public, but also  how we addressing those gaps and opportunities. What are we doing to  one talk to each other about data? What are our protocols? And two, so what what are we doing about it? How are we providing the necessary interventions? What are the resources we're going to be devoting towards those,  those results? Three the city will have an updated professional development master plan. I know it has a PDM because every five years we have to renew it and send it up to  the state Department of Education. They require us to do so.  This is just something that is an opportunity to, you know, when we look back, hearken back to bringing more voices to the table, having a large group of folks kind of take a look at the the Professional Development Master plan, ensuring that it aligns with these goals  and ensuring that it  is going to do exactly what it is that we believe it should and what our teachers and administrators need.
NEXT> David Ryan: And then key result for compile an annual needs assessment for teacher learning and provide timely district sponsored workshops. This is really about, again, that taking the temperature piece of

[15299-138] David Ryan | Dr. David Ryan, outside facilitator hired by this board 8/17/23 at not | 2023-11-09
PREV> David Ryan: it is that they're supposed to be doing. And you're guiding and supporting them along the way. And that's something that I think every saw really ought to be endorsing every year in their goal, writing, number two, establishing a recognition program for staff members.
TEXT> If we want people to stay, we've got to let them know why we love them, and we want them to feel really good about being here, and we want them to smile when they come to work, and they want to have their peers celebrate them, but they also want to celebrate their peers. By far  teachers of the worst shares of  positive stuff about themselves. But they will go out of their way to applaud their neighbor and say how great their next door neighbor is. We have to make sure that  we're recognizing the Herculean efforts of our classroom teachers and our principles. All of our employees, particularly now, where we know that student behaviors in a place where we have not seen in any of our careers, and that we still have a long way to go before we're able to kind of reestablish what  we consider to be acceptable student behavior for all kids. And so just being able to recognize people for the amazing job that they're doing in an earnest and purposefully way. Excuse me, number three, the board will support innovative teacher development and recruitment programs.  Again, hearkens back to the strategic plan,  a number of different documents that we received ensuring that when people are here that  we are providing mentors, that they have quality  programing for how they can grow, looking at what their career projection is going to be like.
NEXT> David Ryan: So for instance, you have teacher leaders. You would love to recruit them to take on administrative roles and groom them and help support their preparation for administrative roles, because

[15311-63] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023, one-year seat) - the | 2023-09-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Moving on to the superintendent's report.
TEXT> Oh. I'm sorry. Can I ask you a question about the student board position? So when do those elections take place?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We should have that already, but I. I'll follow up with Chris Pratt. Usually they put it out to faculty and in students. I mentioned it to him in the

[15311-113] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - recognized as 'Mr. Tempesta' at seg | 2023-09-20
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: I mean, I can't speak for bluff, but that's how Maple does it. Fourth and fifth grade students are given the option, so I would assume it would be the same.
TEXT> And I and I do know,  particularly at the middle school with the really advantages the kids with the money that they have a bunch of new instruments weighting. Those numbers have been growing constantly. So it's a good thing. So yeah, and that's I think that was all the question. Yeah.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Good question. Do we have an update for how Black's courses are going at CMS?

[15311-116] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - Candace Crawford asks a 'follow up q | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I don't I don't know if you checked. Yeah yeah yeah.
TEXT> Excuse me. So there's a shortage of math and science at both seventh and eighth grade.  Into. So to fill that gap, there's a sign the kids up for classes. They  there were some technical issues about getting emails and accounts, and parents had to verify those. And so that was that's being worked through. I'm I think everybody's got their accounts at this point. With the new hires, there's, some discussion about how we now move out of Vlachs. If we can get these new teachers positions, and transition to classroom instruction.  And then so that's still being kind of worked out.  But it looks like as of now, seventh grade will continue. Math and science. Because we don't have positions for them. Potentially we have positions for  math in eighth grade, and then we might be able to fill with extra teachers teaching extra sections.  So that we could we can move our way out of the, but we have to we have to figure out that transition plan still.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Like so. If memory serves, we not offering advanced math this year?

[15311-129] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - Candace Crawford asks a 'follow up q | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And, and.
TEXT> And they have online teachers who take the students through the class. And the students have meetings once or twice a week with those online teachers. And so we're, we're getting the content area material to the students through this method. It's really so.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Half of the seventh grade have a teacher and half have this program.

[15311-144] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - recognized as 'Mr. Tempesta' at seg | 2023-09-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yes, that is nice.
TEXT> And it's the goose egg. It's a former colleague used to say. Yeah, on the cost. It's free. And we struggle with that because what? What if we did an outlay. Got other if we had to pay we  in  Mr. Kosky and and cat also looked into other programs as well. But there was a cost factor. And then if we got that that would have been more of an outlet for the district. So I thought it was very clever. And I don't want a slight  Principal Pratt either. Who did? He's been doing the same type of training with his Odyssey, where as well, to bolster the kids so that they don't fail throughout the year, that they can make up chunks which might seem like it's revolutionary, but it's not. But it's it's he's been really determined to do that with the Excel stuff. And it's going a long way. So. Well, two different breeds of cat. I mean. Your. Your deal is. A course.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: In Odyssey. Where is, credit recovery basically. Well it is, but they they're tailoring it. And I think the biggest thing before is when we talk about alternative schools and

[15311-146] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: on PD really dedicating the time to to dig into that and really build them out. So and it's yeah, it's, it's going well. So it's not the be all and end all. Nothing will replace a teacher in front of kids but it's helping.
TEXT> Yeah. A quick question of how about the parents. How do they feel about the children taking the courses? They feel like I want hands on first.
NEXT> Mike Koski: You know? Sure. I mean, that would be the ideal, right? Yeah. But given the circumstance, they're okay. They could only have a half year of science content or a

[15311-185] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board, presiding in Chair Heather Whitney | 2023-09-20
PREV> Bonnie Miles: 230.
TEXT> When the kids get out. Yeah.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Yeah, I can imagine that's probably going to take like forever because the school is so big compared to the other ones. But it'll be very interesting. Yeah.

[15311-265] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The 306 is the minimum. Standards in the review.
TEXT> It's the,  competencies. Thank you. It's the competencies. It's student learning competencies. And I thought, all  right, I'll just give it an overview, get a sense of what it is. Well, it's 139 pages long. Yes, yes. And in reading the actual flier that's  on our website, it indicates that a lot of this work was done without transparency, without input from the public, from parents and families and the New Hampshire  ASC, d for supervision, curriculum development did put in did get some input into that. And they're lined up side by side on that document. And I just felt that I was not educated enough to be able to host a listening session where we were. This group was coming to us for our feedback. And yet I'm not knowledgeable enough. I don't feel that I've been educated in any part of this. To be able to be a host or part of a hosting session. So I  think I, I don't know how the rest of the board feels, but I don't feel that I'm prepared to be part of the host that so I mean, look at all those pages. So I just want to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just throw in my my $0.02 worth on this in the, back in 2012, probably 10 or 12 years ago, we went to the original competency based. And this is

[15311-345] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We've been so close, but we haven't.
TEXT> I went to  Disney Open House yesterday and it was such a fun time, and I want to compliment everyone who was involved in that.  Mrs. Lewis's husband was making hot dogs, cooking hot dogs on the grill. The PTO was wrapping and making sure kids had watermelon and snacks. They did that for half an hour, come and eat, and then the actual open house where the kids and families went inside started at six, and this cookout started at 530. It was packed. Everyone was having a great time. And it just it's so rewarding to go and to see it and to meet people and talk to everyone. So I think there are five other open houses or four more open houses. I can't do them all. Let's talk about maybe we can do another one.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Next Thursday.

[15311-348] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023, one-year seat) - the | 2023-09-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: You're doing you go to Maple Lap, right?
TEXT> Yeah, for my kids. But next Thursday is Stephen's High school open house. And. Right. And then that Saturday is seems is Fall Festival, right.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And Maple Ave, I know it's bluff and the middle school have, I believe, have their open houses on the same day. But one is 5 to 6 and one

[15336-148] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; Capital Improvement subcommittee - deli | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Because that's what that's what it says to you. Yeah.
TEXT> Yeah. The that estimate of actual food service costs. I think what they're trying to say is an estimate of the food service cost just to feed the kids, and not the administrative costs that go into administering the food service. But that just needs to be worded more clearly.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah. They're also encouraging them to submit a broader resolution for consideration that speaks to all required services beyond food services. That's how I read it.

[15336-229] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the 10/4/2023 meeting to order,  | 2023-10-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Go ahead.
TEXT> Heather. So it's not specific at all though. No, no. So that's the problem. That's my problem. Again is just advocating to the legislature for a universal subsidized meal program for all of our kids. So it's advocating to the legislature.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Yeah. It can't be very you know, they can't I don't think it can be much more specific than that. They're just going to be.

[15336-265] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; Capital Improvement subcommittee - deli | 2023-10-04
PREV> Whitney Skillen: I'm the reason why I'm bringing this up out loud is so that if there's any s h staff that are listening, if you can start in the wintertime to close the windows, it would save Mr. Holt so much stress. His the way that.
TEXT> He explained, the way he keeps up with the temperature of the building and monitors the cold spots and make sure that the temperatures are heated properly for the students, it would just make everyone's life easier if we were all more collaborative about how the school environment is treated. And closing the windows in the wintertime is a really easy way for the staff to support the maintenance.
NEXT> Unidentified: It seems like a really easy thing to signed by the light switch or something.

[15336-286] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; Capital Improvement subcommittee - deli | 2023-10-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: No, I already spoke anyway. Yeah.
TEXT> Can I add. One more thing? Another thing. Because I think this is important to. For all of the families listening, we asked Mr. Holt on his honest opinion on how well the students take care of shades, and he quickly came out of his mouth. Not well, not good at all. And that's disappointing for me as an auntie to hear don't have kids, but I, my nieces and nephews know how to act when they come into my house and how to treat it. And it upsets me that the adults who take who are in charge of taking care of our school don't believe that the children who attend this school care enough to take care of it. That's disappointing to hear, and I would like to see better out of everyone in this community. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Policy subcommittee. We have a introduction of a policy for approval. G.B..

[15336-298] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023, one-year seat) - the | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay, I figure Ben has a good but that's going to be definitely on the next great agenda. And we have the ad hoc disruptive behavior Committee. Jen Gallagher and Mr. Nester on that. And we're I'm really excited to hear about your meeting today.
TEXT> Thank you. Yeah, we had our second meeting today.  First of all, I'd like to say we have a lot of really committed, wonderful people  that care about the students and families of Claremont and  those people, a lot of them were in that room, and  we just want to support the students best. So,  what the committee would like to, to know is, I guess, what the board's vision of the committee is. Are you hoping for some policy recommendations? What is our specific target in order to be most effective.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: For me? I would like to see a unification of, discipline strategies and consequences, making sure that all the elementary schools are doing everything the same, alignment of disruptive behavior

[15336-355] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: think for what we're we're spending on it, I think it needs and the models are out there. So I think that, I think we need to really, bite the bullet on pre-K and, make sure that we're giving the taxpayers what they're paying for.
TEXT> It's interesting that you brought that up, because  with the concept of a discussion about moving the pre-K and then looking for a coordinator, it seems like we're a little disjointed. And maybe that's just my perception being new on the board. But what kind of assessments do we use for monitoring the kids? I think it would be important to have that global picture for for such an important program, and especially if even the New Hampshire School Board Association is looking to  advocate for pre-K for everyone. We want to make sure that we have a successful program here.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I'd like to get that at some point, some. On the. Agenda, on the agenda. Yeah, just just an overview of what we're doing and.

[15336-361] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: was flawed and wasn't really helpful in directing us. So what what's out there to help us make these evaluations? There's got to be specific tools. And is there a monetary like, do we need specific, specific assessment tools that we don't have now or.
TEXT> And do we do pre and post assessment on the students. And then do we we do we study the students longitudinally as they go up into the kindergarten. And where are they. Maybe this board has already gotten that information. And I was it was.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Founded like basically.

[15336-382] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any any other business.?
TEXT> I was wondering about the summer program, the  achievement of the students who were enrolled there. I know that last year as a person at the podium, I asked about it and there was a problem with the data collection. I'm wondering if we have data from this year's students who attended the summer program.
NEXT> Mike Koski: This year. We we used the spring scores. And now. We'll be getting the fall scores. And so we'll have those scores for comparison rather than test at the beginning

[15357-10] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do we have a second? Second. Is there anyone that would like to oppose accepting this donation? Seeing no opposition. The board accepts the donation of $6,000 from the Schwab Charitable Fund. Now, next item is the superintendent's report.
TEXT> Thank you. Chair Whitney. So I, I have if you look at  viewers at home and folks in the audience, you can see, I tried to give a, a  glimpse of what was going on around the district and also  tie those in to the academic goals that, that we've spoken about.  Excuse me, spoken about,  and  I'll mention those right now. So,  what you can see on the here, we have a  math presenter who's been doing a week long workshop in the lower left with all the principals from Monday actually had that work. You see, some of the artifacts from what he presented posted around. They did that in this  room all week as well.  He's wonderful. And other  opportunity we're reaching out to with professional theater company talking about resiliency for our students as well. And then my favorite part of the district, I am a little bit biased for the middle school. It's not just because they hear in mass, okay. It's not it's not, it's not. But,  I love the arts  program that they have in the opportunities for the kids. So I was  down there and,  you know, just the wing of Mr. Pike.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Teacher, I what's the name of Maria's class that she does, Frank? 3D. Yeah. So, in the middle of there, you see the do now exercise that they had, basically,

[15357-11] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: school. It's not just because they hear in mass, okay. It's not it's not, it's not. But, I love the arts program that they have in the opportunities for the kids. So I was down there and, you know, just the wing of Mr. Pike.
TEXT> Teacher,  I what's the name of Maria's  class that she does, Frank?  3D. Yeah. So, in the middle of there, you see the do now exercise that they had, basically, the world has been flooded and is only covered with water draw and ocean house design. And they had to  pull in,  you know, parts of design and talk about how they would do that and just the creativity and how the kids were  comparing ideas. It was wonderful. And then you see the other things from  Mr. Burdens class with his stools. That's a assignment that's been around in Claremont for,  a while now and  is always, always see by the kids. So the first goal we have,  and for myself in for members of our  administrative team and is to visit all schools, administrators and teachers weekly to be in every school and try to exceed that, if we can,  to support the instructional goals and  in student achievement. So and what that means is walking around with the principals, connecting with  teachers, seeing what's going on. And also it was it was great. As you know. You know, I  had a setback personally with my family that I couldn't be around as much in the fall, but it was awesome to be in there  this week as it will be tomorrow.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And and Mr. Kosky can tell you as well. It's just, it's it's wonderful to see why we do this and how dedicated our teachers are and what's going on

[15357-12] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And also it was it was great. As you know. You know, I had a setback personally with my family that I couldn't be around as much in the fall, but it was awesome to be in there this week as it will be tomorrow.
TEXT> And and Mr. Kosky can tell you as well. It's just, it's it's wonderful to see why we do this and how dedicated our teachers are and what's going on in the classroom all the time. So the next is to,  work with our administrative team. We have  some new people in the business office and improve the budgeting process, focusing resources again that directly support instructional goals and student achievement. So and I put on there to remind for the next meeting just about,  the tuition agreements that we have. So the tuition agreements that we have, we get kids,  as we had for a long time from Goshen and also from, Cornish. And just a reminder that we have to get those, because that's one of the first things that we have to get ready to set the tuition rates for kids coming in and things like that. And we spoke about that  with, with both boards recently as well. So the most exciting one that I have, that was  I  as you know, I'm on the board  for the community college. River Valley in  we had just an amazing meeting  last Thursday talking about the opportunities that they have  for students, particularly high school students. And,   to to begin  an accelerated our  program.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And basically they talked about the regional shortages. And I'll show you a few slides. These are actually, Denise Ruby who? The department head for the, health science program there.

[15357-16] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: for the next meeting, he's going to talk specifically to everything that's going on and where the program studies is also headed, so that you have that in your hands earlier, which has always been a goal. So, and that's it. So the other thing.
TEXT> I'm not sorry, I can't see from there.  This was also the, the number of enrollments in anticipation of how the program is almost doubling over the next,  few years. And. I'm sorry, I'm not keeping up with the. But. Yeah, I mean, that's that's the gist of it. There are the steps. Now. Now I'm online. I'm looking at my computer here and it's one slide off now. So  just really exciting opportunity  in very accessible. He is going to come out. And I also shamelessly tried to solicit the the board chair to  we're also talking about and we've said this as well. Jerry Apel does an amazing job. Always has the contact with the high schools in the region coming to Stevens and speaking with the kids, but they also talked about finding  successful stories of folks in the in the health field, people who were that, that person from this community and how they've made it, talking about careers and the impact that can happen. So that's what our next follow up meeting is going to be. So  and there's there's a lot of folks out there. So we're we were just over the moon and with this this meeting. So that's all I have for my report.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Any questions or comments from the board?

[15357-18] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any questions or comments from the board?
TEXT> I have a question about the goals. And I believe that the spirit of the goals is very much aligned with the Claremont School Board, goals that were worked on during the retreat. Yeah, but I'm wondering and I'm looking specifically at all one, if it would be, it would have a greater impact if the goal included rather than  supporting would say something about because this is part of a Claremont board goal. Measuring growth in student achievement and professional instructional practices in all the schools. Sure. So that it's really aligned with the specific goals that were developed at the retreat, especially about improving achievement, specifically with percentages in literacy.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And and we can we can have these are the broader focus goals. I completely agree. We should have benchmarks market measure it all the way through. Yeah. These were

[15357-20] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the board said before in the subcommittee and otherwise you why you order in, you know, the cases of paperclips every year. What do you really need? What's what's what are the teachers want. What are the what are the students need type of thing?
TEXT> And I totally agree. And I understand the the result and the key result of having that visibility in the buildings. And I'm, I keep I'm referring back to the wording within the goal to include measurable growth in student achievement in instructional practices, because that's what we've been focusing on, being able to measure and and improve student achievement and instructional practices. So I think by having it actually in the goal itself, it even more closely aligns with the school board goals.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Absolutely. But we can also have a grid of benchmarks and what we hope to achieve. And Mike will talk more about that as well, along with the principles of

[15357-34] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Agreed. She's already on it. Believe it. Yes. Okay.
TEXT> I commend the work of the administrative team working in the budget process, because we really need to have that. I'm wondering if we if you can include in this that you would also be assisting the school boards because we're I think we equally need to be a part of working to improve the budget process and then improving student achievement. So if you could include that in the goal.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Of.

[15357-43] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: about and what we're doing. So we started when we started the year just as school started. We were short a couple of positions, and the main ones that we were was a science and math position both at the seventh and eighth grade level.
TEXT> So we're short two of those positions. We were very lucky,  as we developed a plan that we've got some late applicants with some great recommendations.  So we actually were able to hire a seventh and eighth grade math teacher and eighth grade science teacher. So we are full both at sixth grade and eighth grade.  Where we're lacking two key people. Is a seventh grade math and a seventh grade science. So I just wanted to update sort of where we are. We're still advertising for those positions.  But the way that we're combating  the shortage is that we're having our students take half year courses.  So half of the  the students will take a  math class. The other half will have an in person. And then halfway through the year, we will switch so that no one student will have either all online or all in person.  In working with blacks and talking with other schools, we just felt our students deserve more than to be put into a cafeteria, into a large room in front of a computer. Like most schools are doing.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So our schedule allows itself and lends itself to having some flexibility, which is one of the great things about our schedule. And so we're able to do this. We're

[15357-47] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: My twins are a little upset because they were sort of like you.
TEXT> But the children you're working with to get signed up and the parents that's for next semester this semester. Just that's current. So not every student is currently using.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Yeah. You want to promise you she wasn't going to talk to you. I'm going to pick I'm going to pay for this.

[15357-54] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: I'll be. Ready to go. Yeah. And we put a lot of supports in place that other schools have not. We have the students are signed up to go to an enrichment block with the content area science and math teacher that we do have.
TEXT> The teacher of record. Is that the teacher of record or is that the. I'm sorry. That's okay. Is that considered the teacher of record for the kids on the left? Do they need a teacher of record?
NEXT> Courtney Steele: So our seventh grade math teacher, our seventh grade science teacher.

[15357-68] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: And the parents have access to see the grades. Through as well.
TEXT> Things like attendance, make sure the kids are actually there and doing it. It's live and.
NEXT> Courtney Steele: It. Is not a live, lesson. They have the teachers have office hours so the kids can sign up for the office hours. Attendance is taken through our staff.

[15357-69] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School staff - the onset of her own answer, 'It is no | 2023-10-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Things like attendance, make sure the kids are actually there and doing it. It's live and.
TEXT> It. Is not a live,  lesson. They have the teachers have office hours so the kids can sign up for the office hours. Attendance is taken through our staff.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: We take. The attendance. Correct.

[15357-74] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: normally full year courses. They call them segments instead of semesters. So the students right now are in segment one, and the students in second semester for us would be in segment two so that they can their only being charged with half of that.
TEXT> Just bless you all for pulling this all off, Jeff and you guys and just having the kids have a successful experience.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Thank you. Thank you.

[15357-81] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: for that first question. All right. Looking at the cell phone policy, the cell phone policy. So, to start off and I've talked with Mr. Pratt and his team and we talked about, you know, the advantages and the differences that they're seeing to that.
TEXT> So what I did and what  Miss Lydia had put together for you, along with Andrew, is just taking a look at our cell phones sort of violations.  And when you look at that, when you look at that, the first cell phone violation is one of those where,  you know, you've had your cell phone out, we asked you to put it away and you haven't. And that then is considered a cell phone violation. So there's a right up to that.  Then we will have an administrator come. We get it. The kids get it back at the end of the day type thing. A second violation would be that the phone is out again, and this time you've already been warned. It stays in the office. It's a phone call. A second phone call.  And a parent is going to have to come get the cell phone. And the third is that we don't want the cell phone to come into the school again. And if it needs to, it must stay in the office or with a dean or an administrator.  When you walk in and then you get it at the end of the day.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So we kind of just broke down where our cell phone violations are running, and you can kind of see how many students, for the eighth grade, it's one parent

[15357-86] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Ben Nester: All right.
TEXT> The roles of the dean. So there's a lot of information here  in regards to the student centers. And,  they're interchangeable, whether we call them academic standards or student centers. The breakdown that we have this year.  We have one eighth grade center, right, right. That houses all the eighth grade students. And we've combined six and seven together into one student center. Again, academic center, student center. And the idea behind it.  And as you can see, is that it's it's to be accessed by students for a variety of reasons. And we kind of broke that down for you.  Showing in eighth grade, there have been 549 uses or referrals. So that means since the start of school,  that room has been accessed 549 separate times for a variety of reasons. Some of its students are advocating for themselves.  Some of them, we recognize that they need a quieter space. They need a redirect.  They need a restart. And so  that's what the student centers in its simplest form, do. But we've also, if you kind of go through in the page, talks about the description of the sixth and seventh and eighth grade deans and the roles that they play.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: And, Mike was fortunate enough. He was in the building the other day and kind of sat through one of the Dean meetings that we had, which is our admin

[15357-87] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: a restart. And so that's what the student centers in its simplest form, do. But we've also, if you kind of go through in the page, talks about the description of the sixth and seventh and eighth grade deans and the roles that they play.
TEXT> And,  Mike was fortunate enough.  He was in the building the other day and kind of sat through one of the Dean meetings that we had, which is our admin team. We meet every day.  Sometimes it's five minutes depending, and sometimes we can get 20 minutes in.  But we go through every single student in the building. Like, where? Where are we? What are the things we need to know? What? You know, what direction are things going? Who needs what help? Is it? Academic is a discipline. It's a quick roundup. Mike was there for that.  And the deans are  a major part of that.  They know what is happening in their buildings and in their grades every day. So they're a vital part of  that sort of not only academic, but the social emotional growth of our students and what we're doing.  The last thing and this is a question.  We have talked about, I think when I was here in my my last presentation is some of the greatest barriers,  improving academic outcomes and talking about measurable goals  and where we're headed.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Just kind of took a rundown of some of those things. The, the mental health support is always one of the biggest and, first on the list. And then I

[15357-88] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: and what we're doing. The last thing and this is a question. We have talked about, I think when I was here in my my last presentation is some of the greatest barriers, improving academic outcomes and talking about measurable goals and where we're headed.
TEXT> Just kind of took a rundown of some of those things.  The, the mental health support is always one of the biggest and,  first on the list. And then I really want to,  with our community and talking about the things that are going on, I really want to help promote and support the families. And so thinking about what can we do to, to help support,  our families and our parents and our grandparents. And what do they need? And do we need more seminars? Do we need workshops? Do we need education to help,  with those families? Teacher recruitment and retention. And that's something that we continuously talk about.  We're talking about curriculum alignment, which that's all the work that we've been doing and some of the things they brought in. I'll bring up Late Bus again just because I always do.  But I if we don't have a late bus, we don't have kids that are staying after for academics, for sports, for drama, for clubs.  Still continuously building those relationships.  If we had a late bus, we would have so much more,  just participation and activity in our building. But kiddos and families, and we understand that.  But I will continue to stand up here and promoting lake bus. Our kids need it. And the last thing is the district wide reading and  reading and writing initiative. I talked about that the last time I was here. I just if we're not reading, we're not learning.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: And so everything we can do to promote that. We recently through a grant. If you haven't seen it, you have to come by. It's like one of the cutest

[15357-89] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: to stand up here and promoting lake bus. Our kids need it. And the last thing is the district wide reading and reading and writing initiative. I talked about that the last time I was here. I just if we're not reading, we're not learning.
TEXT> And so  everything we can do to promote that. We recently through a grant.  If you haven't seen it, you have to come by. It's like one of the cutest things is we have a vending machine that's for books.  Just like a candy machine. And a couple of kids are upset. There's no candy in it.  And I get that. How come we don't put candy? But  our students own  earn tokens through a variety of things. Whether it's student of the month, we're actually broadening that a little bit for some other. But they go in and they put a token and they get a book  and it's theirs. It's pretty neat. It's got a CMS thing on the side.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: How did that. How did you get that?

[15357-101] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: you for coming. Could you tell us a little bit your second bullet? What's the greatest barrier to improving academic outcomes for the. The point is programs for parents on how to support success. Sure. What can you give specifics of? What kind of programs?
TEXT> Yeah. So, you know. One of the things that I'd love to do is see. If we can have monthly meetings for parents.  And some, some of the simplest things that could be like, how do I,  nefarious activity on cell phones  or, on computers, like, what to look for. What are the things to look for when your kid has,  and I'm not on social media and I make jokes about it, but Facebook and Snapchat and all of those things. And what are the pitfalls and what are the questions to ask?  When you. Have those meetings. On a month, those are things that we'd like to set up as a program. So when we talk about some of the barriers,  those are things that we would like to see and maybe have some outside resources. I know that I couldn't speak to social media.  Because I'm not on it. And  the kids make fun of me all the time. But,  people that can actually speak to what it is, what to look for, what's proper, what's proper time of use,  those type of things, those are conversations we try to have with our own kids.  And I think families would appreciate some support  and some guidelines and some literature about what does that look like? What do you look for? So currently.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Are there any regular programs for parents?

[15357-130] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - the chair says ' | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Crawford.
TEXT> Just follow up question.  I think it's great to have the, vending machine and the tokens is is is good. My concern is that oftentimes the kids who aren't achieving and don't get those tokens are the ones that really need extra help reading. Yes. And so what kinds of programs do you have for those kids?
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So, just yesterday, I believe it was yesterday, I sat with our building leadership team and admin team and asked the same question, which is why what we're going to

[15357-131] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: machine and the tokens is is is good. My concern is that oftentimes the kids who aren't achieving and don't get those tokens are the ones that really need extra help reading. Yes. And so what kinds of programs do you have for those kids?
TEXT> So,  just yesterday, I believe it was yesterday, I sat with our building leadership team and admin team and asked the same question, which is why what we're going to do is,  and I guess I can say this, or because we were talking about I was going to kind of  reveal it, but,  we have these,  you good cut you being good cards. Right. And so what we're going to do is each teacher,  is going to, I think, going to nominate somebody each month. So each teacher within their grade will just caught you being good. You pick something up off the ground, you held the door open. It doesn't necessarily have to be the student of the month criteria. And then we will, celebrate that at our all school meeting because we do all school meetings on Fridays, and then once a month we do the student of the month, we will give the kids their cards and announce and say, hey, caught you being good.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: It goes into a drawing and we will pick a couple of names each month, just as a random thing that they will also get a token. We've also I've

[15357-153] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the meeting to order (segments 3 | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: books. Like, we need to figure that out, right? We need to get on that and figure out how we're going to get it to them. So that's why we had asked the question in one of the meetings this week. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> I just have one more question. Unless anybody else has a question.  My question is about the deans and the academic centers or the student support centers. I know this is part of Esser money, so there's probably a phasing out process that's going to happen.  But I'm trying to see that if trying to draw some lines to possible benefit. And the pie chart that you, you provided, which is great, it looks like to me that more than roughly three quarters of the students that access these centers are there for social, emotional or  behavior type issues and a limited number for academic support. Now, I do understand that there's a direct correlation between social emotional growth and ability to learn. But is there any mechanism in place currently that tracks the students that have access to the system to see if, if they actually are gaining these social emotional benefits that are leading to academic growth? Because to me, to me the end game is academic growth, whereas the key indicator towards that end game is, you know, improve social. Emotional,  sure. But social emotional growth  unto itself, it's kind of hard to measure that.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Yes.

[15357-156] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - assenting while the chair puts he | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: But if you've got that then you're going to see the academic.
TEXT> Yes. So what I can tell you some of the data points that we're looking at in regards to this. And one thing I'm just going to back up and say you're absolutely correct. Behavior is information, right. And so when kids are behaving some sort of way there's information there. Our job is to figure out what's that information. Is it academic. Is it social. Is it home. What what. What is the barrier that's coming up? Because 98% of those behaviors are not directed at me or the staff. It's because of something that's going on. It could be academic, right? So,  yes, the academic centers. Centers are part of social emotional, but they are academic as well. We do have teachers that so all of our teachers in on our staff actually circle through our student centers throughout the week. So each teacher is responsible for going to visit for one block, a student center. And that's for academic support and help. Right? We have the dean in there. So you may have some students that are struggling in a class for it might be behavioral, but it's really that they're struggling academically. So we have certified teachers and they're supporting those kids.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: All that being said, some of the data points that we look at is an ineligible list compared from one year to the next, right. How many of our students

[15357-157] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: academic support and help. Right? We have the dean in there. So you may have some students that are struggling in a class for it might be behavioral, but it's really that they're struggling academically. So we have certified teachers and they're supporting those kids.
TEXT> All that being said, some of the data points that we look at is an ineligible list compared from one year to the next, right. How many of our students are ineligible as opposed to this year? Attend in ineligibility for sports and co-curricular activities, right. So if you're failing  more than right to two. Right. So I can tell you that I remember  pre  student centers, we were 15 and 20. Post student centers were four and five. Whether there's a direct correlation or not, but I'd like to think that the work that we're being done has some has an impact on that. When we talk about attendance and that's not just attendance in school, which is up for us because we have kids now that are coming to school because they know they have a place to go of support, and that when they need help or social emotional help, that there is a place for them to go. And it's not just the counselors, but there's somebody, there's a teacher there, there's a connection that they've made where they can get some small group instruction or some one on one work in that student center. So attendance is up when we look overall at the referrals and what those referrals are, right.  Referrals of skipping class linked to class,  those are down.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So we don't have all because students are getting into classes. You're still going to have some of the other behaviors that we have referrals. So those are three major

[15357-181] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - the chair asks for a motion 'Mr.  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Mary Henry: All right.
TEXT> So I just would add  as a footnote that the original when we started an alternative program, it was  we actually,  subcontracted it to Ombudsman and it was in the Goddard Block downtown. And it worked out well. It was a space. And the kids,  got there on their own. And,  I again, all the research I ever did on alternative programs,  not in high school. That's a hard note with me if anybody asks me. But,  but I think that the downtown is a great option. River Valley is intriguing. Yeah. Also, Yeah. Savings bank.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No candy, Miss Gillen. And then down the line. Yeah.

[15357-444] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the meeting to order (segments 3 | 2023-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Mr..
TEXT> Mr.. Pratt as well.  We received a lot of information in our emails that is pretty robust and  well ahead of schedule, so you can review them and actually ask questions related to their presentations. So if there's things that you feel that you would like clarified in their presentations, this will give them time to make those adjustments so we can move quickly through the agenda. See, I'm also spoke to Chris Pratt about the student representative. He is still searching for a volunteer. It's not a highly desirable position. And so I just kind of threw out to him that perhaps,  a whoever facilitates the student government may reach out to the board or, or may like to reach out to us and come up with a more compelling role for that individual. And so maybe we can expand it a little bit instead of them just being somebody who kind of rattles off what's going off in school. So it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Gives them tokens for the.

[15385-7] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - runs the agenda from the opening conse | 2023-11-01
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: That was not here.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you.  Absent that,  addendum, is there any, request to alter the consent agenda if not approved? Moving on to comments. Is there anybody  in the audience that would like to speak to the board this time? Seeing none.  We will move to the school board member report. Our student school and board member report.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: That that. Well,

[15385-9] Unidentified | Stevens High School student school board representative, 10th grade -  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: That that. Well,
TEXT> As this student school board representative, I just wanted to report on some things from a student body view. Some of the things are how  the  yonder patches are going for the student body, the positive and the negative aspects. One of the positive things that I see is how there isn't like a social like expectation. So I don't have the fear of being filmed by other students or being photographed without my consent. But I'm sure you guys have heard a lot of the negative. But one of is the students are afraid of not being able to contact parents during an emergency or just during the school day, but I'm sure you guys have heard that. The other thing is the vandalism in the bathrooms right now.  Which may not have been resolved, but  if it hasn't, there are some few ideas I have, like a hall monitor maybe, or checking bathrooms hourly and then seeing who went in those bathrooms. And I think once we catch those people,  making consequential consequences more  intense will make it stop. Like either making the students clean their own vandalism or making detentions more frequent for them. I also think that the student handbook should be updated on specifically how  tardiness, absences and detentions affect not only sports, but clubs.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Thank you. Thank you.

[15385-12] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - runs the agenda from the opening conse | 2023-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: We have the same presentation.
TEXT> So perfect. Greatly appreciated. Thank you. It's valuable information. Yes. Yeah. Thank you. Presented. Is there any questions from the board for our student reps? Seeing none, we'll move on to the superintendent's report.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Thank you, Madam Chair. So what I have I have two items. One is we had visitors from the New Hampshire Department of Education led by Joey Nichols, come out

[15385-14] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - gives the superintendent's report at segments  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: students knew the school and it was wonderful. So I also have another, bit of good news to report today. We had a follow up meeting today. It's part of, Principal Pratt's initiative with we followed up with members of the River Valley Community College.
TEXT> As I presented last time about the nursing program and the opportunities  to to get  both running start credit and also  school to work  initiatives. And we just an amazing first meeting of ideas where we were  other good news to report to.  I offered because we have two  new busses and two of the drivers passed. Okay.  So we're closer. We're we're closer to the lake bus, but we're also close to the things that they were talking about that were wonderful opportunities for our kids, and  particularly  trying to layer and have a summer program. It's fledgling now, but  also, that that is a work experience and also tailoring some more,  running start course opportunities with them. But it was I think it was one of the most fruitful  meetings I've had so far with them. And,  and everyone was on board. So it was just really exciting opportunity. We'll have more to share and have them out as well. We've been follow up meeting in a couple of weeks, but it was it was a great meeting.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So there any questions for would you briefly remind the community what the Teachers United Teach Unite is about?

[15385-27] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Next item on our agenda is Stephen's high school update, principal Christopher Pratt. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening everyone. First, I want to start off for thinking Kylie and Nicole for stepping up to being the student reps. They're both great representations of the student body we have at the school. We've already talked about some stuff that we want to be moving forward to give students more of a voice. But, you know, Kylie last week was one of the panel members for the community viewing. We had a screen ager. She did a fantastic job. And Nicole was one of the roles. And in the play we had a few weeks ago. So they they both contribute a lot to the school. So I'm very happy and pleased to have them both here. So thank you both.  I think everyone got a copy of the The Principal's report, so I'm just going to brush over some of the, you know, some of this. On the first part we have identikit.  So I was set up initially. So when we have visitors come in, we know who's coming into the building. And like it says in the report, it's, what it set up for is that visited? Come in. They scanned the license and automatically what happens is it goes through identikit and they cross-reference it for  anyone who may have be sexual offenders or,  custody issues or anything like that.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's just another level of safety. I was talking to Jeff earlier. As of, like last week, there's still some areas that we want to check on before we go

[15385-31] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: was a very productive knife. We continue we want to continue to have more and increase the community participation in these nights. I think it's important. So we're going to look to the future to have more of these community events at the high school.
TEXT> As far as faculty and staff updates, what we've we've started doing is because, you know, we're really  working on restorative practices, not just for the students, but for the teachers as well, and giving them the tools they need to to work with students in their classroom and really boosting up their classroom management skills.  So we started reading,  Restorative Practices Playbook, and what that looks like is during faculty meetings is that we'll break out into professional learning communities and have deeper conversations with guided questions about what we read over the past month in regards to that. So we're on the same page in regards to it shouldn't just happen outside the classroom, but what does it look like if there's all sudden there's an altercation or a disruption in the classroom, given the teachers the tools they need to resolve that problem, circle up in the class to do that. So we're excited about that.  This past month we had music and theater. Both have, events happening. We had  the music,  had the  Dallas brass come in and performed for the elementary students, but also they also  performed for the for the community. And so that was a that was a good success. And we had the, the, Stephens High School theater department present the play Night watch. And so and that was something that Nicole was part of.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Fantastic job. So it was it was great to see. It was a full house and it was great to see, like I said, the community coming in and and

[15385-32] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: also they also performed for the for the community. And so that was a that was a good success. And we had the, the, Stephens High School theater department present the play Night watch. And so and that was something that Nicole was part of.
TEXT> Fantastic job. So  it was it was great to see.  It was a full house and it was great to see, like I said, the community coming in and and seeing what our students are all about and what they have to offer and the hard work that goes in, not just in their academics, but the extracurriculars as well. I had an opportunity to visit the new  Stephens High School Alumni Association space that they have up on Washington Street.  It's a very nice space. I encourage anyone to go take a look at it. There's a lot of history there. With their new space, they're able to,  display the trophies and the plaques and a lot of historical pictures. And they also have a little place there. You can see where they, they sell alumni merch. So,  we're trying to increase the,  the involvement with the school and the alumni association and the alumni association with the school.  So that was a great visit. We continue to build on the restorative justice program  this year. Right now, students are currently being trained on the student panels to  meet with students on very low level situations, on the proactive approach to resolve conflict and how to listen to each other and really get down to why the problems happen rather than just putting out the punitive piece.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So the students are currently being trained on that, and that's a huge step for for Stephens High School in regards to student leaders within the building. I think we

[15385-33] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: trained on the student panels to meet with students on very low level situations, on the proactive approach to resolve conflict and how to listen to each other and really get down to why the problems happen rather than just putting out the punitive piece.
TEXT> So the students are currently being trained on that, and that's a huge step for for Stephens High School in regards to  student leaders within the building.  I think we have a total.  Each panel is made up of 3 or 4 students, and we have enough for 3 or 4 panels. So so that's great. We're very excited about that. Some of the qualities that we look like we look for in the in the candidates, you can see there's comparing compassion for every member of our community. Trustworthiness.  The able to keep confidence, patience and want to listen and understand. And the bigger thing is listening of the conflict that took place so we can resolve it. So when we're done dealing with it. We know why it happened, how it happened, and what we need to do in the future so it doesn't happen again. So we're very excited about the student panels. Next up is, I wanted to share with the board. And the community is like back in  the beginning of last year, we started the,  Swat protocol with all the faculty and staff.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And the Swat protocol is strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats that we see within Stevens High School. And so how that process worked is that first we did it all

[15385-34] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: it doesn't happen again. So we're very excited about the student panels. Next up is, I wanted to share with the board. And the community is like back in the beginning of last year, we started the, Swat protocol with all the faculty and staff.
TEXT> And the Swat protocol is strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats that we see within Stevens High School. And so how that process worked is that first we did it all as as a department. Each department did their own slot in regards to what they saw as strengths, weaknesses, threats and opportunities. Once they had that, I took all that information and I compiled it into the document you see here. And for instance, if one department had  freedom to choose curriculum as a strength and another  had it as a weakness, it didn't make the list. We wanted to be consistent in regards to what we're seeing for these different quadrants within the Swat protocol. So what you have in front of you is the  strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats that we saw. Starting at the beginning of last year until the end of the year. And I think the big highlight is all the work that we're doing with,  Excel. And I want to get into that a little bit, I excel. So what Excel really is, is that it's an online program. And once a week at least, you know, sometimes every other week students come in on a Monday and advisory and they take the diagnostic, whether they take it in English and math for all students, whether or not they're currently enrolled in an English or math class, they still have to take the diagnostic and and keep on top of the Excel.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So once they take that diagnostic each week or biweekly, depending on the student that updates their individualized learning profile and populates it with the areas that they showed on

[15385-35] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: and advisory and they take the diagnostic, whether they take it in English and math for all students, whether or not they're currently enrolled in an English or math class, they still have to take the diagnostic and and keep on top of the Excel.
TEXT> So once they take that diagnostic each week or biweekly, depending on the student that updates their individualized learning profile and populates it with the areas that they showed on the diagnostic as a weakness. And so each student on a regular basis gets their updated, individualized learning plan for English and math, whether they're in a current class or not. And for some students who are really struggling, like in science, they have a for science. And then any students take in Spanish. Also have Excel for Spanish. And it's just our way to know that the learning that we're given, not just in the classroom, but on a regular basis, is up to date. It's meeting the students where they are, and then from that we're able to see that data at at every level. So some of the graphs you see here in front of you is, is if you look at the first one, questions answered per student per week, our goal was 60. And so you have a ninth and 12th grade is there above that. And so it and then the next one is skill usage. So we have total questions answered from the beginning of the year until I think this was mid end of October, we have 143,832 questions answered by the student body.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And we have a total of 723 hours spent on learning outside of the classroom for the extended learning. Most of it does happen during schools. You can see on

[15385-36] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: is there above that. And so it and then the next one is skill usage. So we have total questions answered from the beginning of the year until I think this was mid end of October, we have 143,832 questions answered by the student body.
TEXT> And we have a total  of 723 hours spent on learning outside of the classroom for the extended learning. Most of it does happen during schools. You can see on the following page where it says extend students learning. Some students do do it at home, but a lot of times that's what we're using advisory. Now they have to spend at least 15 to 20 minutes in advisory. And if they can't get it to an advisory because they have their other academics that they're working on, they need to spend time at least 15, 20 minutes at home to do that. And that's what that graph there shows, is that majority of the work that's being done is  during the school day, during that 47 minutes we have for advisory and the next one, Building Mastery. You can see,  since September 11th, we've had the level continues to go up in regards to students building mastery in the skills that are given to them within what they show on their diagnostic. And keep in mind, this is all outside their regular classrooms. And so the big numbers are that you see, is, like I said, they have 100, 722 hours additional time spent outside of classroom.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And most of this is an l a in math and then skills mastered. We have 3115 skills mastered since the beginning of the year, 3442 skills that they're proficient.

[15385-38] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: this is an additional to their their their regular classwork. But the students who aren't as an administration, we monitor I monitor that and I go in and look and say, okay, we have these students who aren't really doing much in Excel at all.
TEXT> So therefore they're learning they could be falling further and further  in that class. So for those students, what we do is that we identify those students. We take those students instead of them going to their advisory where they're not doing their excel,  that we take them and we put them in the restorative school day room for advisory, where we can monitor and make sure that they're now that they are working in their Excel. So it's it's different than a lot of programs where you hope kids are doing it. But here we're actually saying, okay, we have the proof. We can show that out of 100 questions you've answered two, and you've spent five minutes instead of the two hours that you're supposed to. So we're able to monitor that. So make sure that kids are keeping up the best they can. Next page, just some pictures from  the matching band we had on October 20th. It was towards some of the end of the regular sport seasons. So they they played the Stevens High School fight song at the end of the day through the hallways, and it was just a nice, school pride and celebrating school spirit. And then the last  page is just the enrollment numbers and just some  upcoming November dates that are important for Stevens High School.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Questions. Can.

[15385-61] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - runs the agenda from the opening conse | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: It's it's just so we can identify in keeping kids safe in the building, because you never know who's coming into the building. It's just another level of safety for visitors coming in who may not be the safest people coming into the building. Awesome.
TEXT> This I agree. This is excellent. Thank you very much. You're welcome. I have a question about this Excel, which I think is fabulous. The extended learning and the building mastery in looking at it. The building mastery to me seems like for those kids who have not yet reached the standard. Correct. And then the extended learning is that like an enrichment or a deeper dive into the classes they're already taking, or are they.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah.

[15385-65] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - runs the agenda from the opening conse | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: work that they need to get like a 800 to a 950. So it challenges to keep growing within that. And then we also have the SAT, we have the state standardized tests. It's all tied in there. We can assign if we need to.
TEXT> It's a really nice solid program. Again. And from my own understanding, the extended student learning, if I'm a student and I'm taking a science class, hypothetically, chemistry, which I did not do well on, is the extended learning. If I'm doing well in the class, then I would be more engaged in the student extended learning, and then would I get like a deeper level of chemistry or. Yes, okay, that.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Was for English and math. Yes. For for Excel in science, it only goes up to eighth grade. But we have a lot of students who aren't there yet right

[15385-89] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: She did let me know. She doesn't have capacity right now. So we can explore other avenues, but we, you know, in hopes that the board was going to be agreeable to lease that bullet point. I did reach out already.
TEXT> I have a a thought about this comprehensive, research based early childhood curriculum. The Department of Ed has, as you know, the thick, thick,  listing of benchmarks and standards for students. And if we can implement those standards even at this point, start working to for our children that are there now,  I don't know if from what I read with the the Brigance being used, that's an opportunity to assess. But then do we look at where our students are in relation to those benchmarks and then have that drive and continued instruction, for lack of a better word, that the students are getting?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Totally agree. Totally agree. I think that in my view, and I, I think the mikes would share the same view, is that we need to we need to look

[15385-91] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: and sequence for the district at large. I think it's time to do that and time to put standards in front of people so that we have our teachers have a goal and know what they're going to be teaching roughly at a given time.
TEXT> Do you think there's a chance that that can happen for the students that are there this year in some way, shape or form? It's an hour to, hey to a, I'll say, language arts curriculum. Math curriculum is really based on the standards. Very much so. So I think for that consistency through it's very different for pre-K. Yeah, it's really developmental. And to have a way to assess where each child is at. And then how do we build on that I think is is really important. And for the students who are there this year as well.
NEXT> Ben Nester: We. Will I'm meeting with pre-K staff on Friday, actually to do some some sort of big planning. And so that will be in everyone's hands on Friday.

[15385-124] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah. We want to give credit to the pre-K staff and others that have helped out. But we've we've had to do some some shifting and some assignment changes. But we've got a we've got a structure in place that we're still solid about.
TEXT> Can I ask one more thing? Sure. I have a lot of questions about the pre-K. I apologize, but I don't apologize. The,  the idea of having services provided outside of the early childhood environment is something that is discussed. And I and I did ask you about bussing. And currently our, our students are bussed to the early childhood. I'll use the expression early childhood center pre-K program. Yeah. If we go into the model or, or really think about a model where we are pushing outside services, do we lose the chance that some or do we have the chance that some of our students will not be able to get those services because of transportation issues from families.
NEXT> Ben Nester: If we. So what that normally looks like is students that attend Head Start in town, you know, we can send staff to Head Start to provide the special ed

[15385-136] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - runs the agenda from the opening conse | 2023-11-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I'll stop there.
TEXT> I think one of the questions or one, one of the yeah, one of the questions is,  if a child is so what I'm hearing you say is if it's within the district that a child needs OTP, those kind of services, then it is incumbent upon the district to make sure that the child received those services while they are attending the pre-K program.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yes.

[15385-151] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: an earlier board meeting, this year we instituted a right, instituted a new process for in district special ed referrals. We adopted a new form that requires administration signature at the building level. And then my signature. So that has to come across my desk.
TEXT> And,  and I want to give credit to our teachers, to those that are, you know, working to provide RTI in the schools. So far, we've seen one special ed referral from our buildings this year,  which is  which is a success. And I think it's because our staff are working so hard to meet the students needs pre referral.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So that's that's. Very, very pleased. To make it.

[15385-158] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member - the chair asks 'Bonnie did you have an | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Are there any more questions for Mr. Nestor? Bonnie did you have any or.
TEXT> Yeah.  So. We're moving. We want to move the pre-K into the buildings because it's better for the students. It's a more accepted model. I just want to know what the goal is.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So a bunch of reasons. So it's it's easier to, In a perfect world, you'd have we'd have enough capacity at the schools, both in terms of rooms and

[15385-166] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And if we have to increase class size or do other types of things, we need to make sure we can get all of this done, and that's what we're projecting.
TEXT> I what I'm hearing is a lot of this, this, this, this. And it's important for my perspective, for me to have a real plan laid out that addresses all of the things that we've been asking about, that you've been presenting and you're working on, so that we're not at the last minute, moving young children into a situation that might not be in their best interest, and having the staffing that's there. We have powers that are at the elementary level. We have Paris at the pre-K. Their skill sets are very, very different for young children versus a fourth or fifth grader. So I think in order to have a successful program for our youngest children, we really need to plan this out with great detail and understanding that we all want our kids to have so that they can all have the best experience and then be successful as they move up through the grades.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Good. Couldn't agree more. That's why we've been talking about it in the past few weeks. In October. We're modeling it right now in over the weekend. In November we're

[15385-366] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: No discussion. All in favor of setting our tuition rate for K through 51612 K through 12. Excuse me. K through 12. That's 16,000 per year for 2425. All in favor? Aye aye aye. Opposed. Same a. Is there any other business? Before the board.
TEXT> I have one thing I just would like to thank. Send out a thank you to Thomas Smith Knox at Claremont Middle School and Taylor Webb at Stephens High School, and the unity music teacher and the Newport Music teachers for bringing in the Dallas Brass Group. They conducted clinics and workshops for our middle school and high school kids over a period of days. They also performed for the elementary schools the following day, and there was a wonderful evening concert where all the band and choral members from those middle and high schools and Unity Elementary performed with that Dallas brass. Our students were so confident as they were playing. They were enthusiastic. The the focus that they had while they were playing, the audience etiquette was absolutely phenomenal, and they made quite a connection to the members of that brass band. It was excellent. I, I just those people deserve a very big thing here.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.

[15413-5] Nicole Bouchard | Student board member, Stevens High School (grade 10) - the chair intro | 2023-11-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: the audience who would like to comment? Seeing no one in the audience commenting, we are going to close citizens comments. Now we'll turn our attention to our two student board members, new Cole Bouchard and Kylie Plummer. Did I say that correctly? Thank you.
TEXT> All right. Thank you for having me again. I just wanted to speak about a few brief little things. The first being is that I think Stevens should start to branch out colleges and future job opportunities to students starting in lower grades. So instead of talking about colleges starting at junior year, maybe we should start in freshman or sophomore year. And maybe making college visits more easy for students to go to. Second is how Spirit Week has been very beneficial to the student body. I think that it makes coming to school easier because it's kind of like a creative way to get students involved. I think that we should also encourage students to participate more in that. Some students around me have expressed some concerns about 504 plans changing. I'm not very educated on 504, but I thought I should bring it up. This year we have a 45 minute block called Focus Study where now we do excel, which you guys have heard about, or we finish work from classes that isn't done. But last year during that block, we had an opportunity to go to other teachers to get additional help.
NEXT> Nicole Bouchard: But this year we don't. And since we don't have this anymore, and we did last year, I'm sure that there was a good reason to get rid of it.

[15413-34] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - Mike Koski says  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes.
TEXT> And so do you bring up some of these topics to the student council?
NEXT> Nicole Bouchard: Well, we don't.

[15413-40] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - Mike Koski says  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Kylie Plummer: Yeah. They're definitely a lot of things that should be sorted out in that specific area.
TEXT> But because I think the student council could address, you know, as representatives of the student body with the administration, I think a lot of these could be worked out in that form.
NEXT> Kylie Plummer: I honestly hope that that comes. Currently, as far as like I've seen student council, I've only seen or heard about what they do through like fundraising and like school

[15413-72] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the meeting to order at segment  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Kylie Plummer: It's like they're like juniors and seniors. There's a college rep here. So a lot of people don't assume that that is extended to them in that sense. I, I would hope that it already would be, but it does not seem like that currently.
TEXT> Are there any questions? Our student representatives.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I've never heard so many questions asked.

[15413-373] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - the chair says 'Mr. Tempesta, would you would  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: hour? Our regularly scheduled meeting today for about a couple of hours. Okay. I think you were in the tail end of that today, Jen, but the, and I you know, I definitely recommend that signing it so that we can move forward with that.
TEXT> And they mentioned it. The second one that I have, I can do them both of you. Like, the second one I have was we had an opening  for at the middle school for an athletic director, and I had a discussion. Principal Romeo  reached out and he had a new PE teacher who was very excited about the opportunity.  This stipend didn't exist in the teachers contract. There is a clause in the teachers contract that we can reach out if there is something that comes up. I spoke to Tammy Yates and Karen Ladd,  and we followed,  the.  If you know, the I know many of you do who long time on the committee, the appendix and the tracks. There's a rationale as to why certain  positions are paid the way they are. So this one was basically  kind of tripling the three season 2800 to make it $1,500  stipend for an athletic director. The reason  principal Romeo  and myself in in in the the union like this is it's great to have a certified educator in the role incentivizes someone to stay around  as well. And it also has someone in-house on the CMS staff to be the ad, who knows the kids and the values and stuff like that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, we do have a person, you know, who did agree to do it, and we just wanted to put them formally before the board. I talked to Heather about

[15443-0] Frank Sprague | Chair, School Board finance/budget subcommittee; Vice Chair, Claremont | 2023-11-30
PREV> 
TEXT> It looks like we're on the air.  So I'd like to welcome everybody at home and here to, our Claremont preliminary school budget for the 2425 fiscal year. My name is Frank Sprague. I'm the chair of this committee and vice chair of the Claremont Board.  Heather Whitney is on the committee. She's the chair of the Claremont board. And Candace Crawford is also on the committee. Claremont board member and Mike Tempesta, superintendent. Mike Kosky, assistant superintendent. Mary Henry,  business administrator. And  Ben Nester, who is our special ed director. And we have a couple of administrators here. Alyssa and I came in a brain cramp. Christine. Christine baker. Okay. Sorry. Christine. Just join us online. Okay. And Mark is online. Okay. So what we're going to do tonight, and it's, I just want to. So. So people out there know what what the purpose of the school board is in developing the budget is that we our charge is to make sure that  we we have the things that we we need to provide education to our kids. And it's a thoughtful process.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And at the same time, we need to make sure that whatever we bring forward is sustainable by the taxpayers. So it's sort of like walking along the edge of

[15443-2] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 — named in the opening round-robin (' | 2023-11-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: walking along the edge of a razor blade. And, so at the end of this process, we'll hopefully have a number that accomplishes both of those things, supports our schools, and at the same time is something that the taxpayers will pass come, come March.
TEXT> And  so with that,  I think I'm going to turn any opening remarks you'd like to make or wouldn't it just again? Sure. Well, I can start. If you look at  we tried to put things just in a, an overview summary of the rationale of kind of four, four big buckets that we're looking at. All right. So the big ones that we had and we I tried to speak to this  school board as well as the  administration as we've been talking about goals and such. So one was to  reopening the paraprofessional contract to prioritize a fair and competitive contract,  sunsetting the additional staff that we brought in a few years ago, funded by the federal government, the Esser  positions  intended to mitigate student learning loss from the Covid 19 pandemic. And  we are also  trying to evaluate and fund some of the positions where the administrative team still feel are necessary for the academic, social, emotional and overall well-being for students in the Claremont Public Schools. So when you'll see those outlined  in the following  presentation, but then we're also focused on embedding  the early childhood program, really literacy and necessary early event intervention  directly in our elementary schools, not standing  alone in isolation up here at the tech center, and also to continue to decrease the high school dropout rate by a line in the high school and middle school schedules and academic and social expectations.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So some of these things we'll talk more in detail about tomorrow morning, and also that we will follow up in public presentations as well. You know, over the course

[15443-4] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 — named in the opening round-robin (' | 2023-11-30
PREV> Michael Tempesta: extra staff that includes the academic deans at the middle school, the academic centers at Stevens in the middle school, the elementary and middle school, summer programs in the after school tutoring that has gone on since Covid, the return from Covid in after school.
TEXT> All of those things expire in September of 24 next September, so we need to take most of that out of the budget, obviously, except the summer program that will be in the budget.  Many of the programs, including the summer school in academic deans and  academics  structure remaining at the middle school parallel to the high school are proposed by the principals to remain in the local budget. And we'll talk more about those tomorrow. Not necessarily tonight.  The other part that we have about embedding the early childhood program,  and we just kind of three  major points on that. One is the early childhood staff.  The elementary principals, central office and all. And I believe most of the board as well believe that it's more beneficial to operate those programs directly embedded in the elementary schools. And there are several  reasons why the tech center  it the program started up here as a program. We no longer have the program. And it's tough to be a standalone up here.  And  and it's also the differences in age and things like that for general student and student well-being. And excuse me, I apologize.  In the existing staff at the tech center would be assigned to the elementary schools.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we'll talk about some of that today. There is a space problem, though, at the at the elementary schools. And what I don't see in this that I have

[15443-5] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 — named in the opening round-robin (' | 2023-11-30
PREV> Michael Tempesta: tough to be a standalone up here. And and it's also the differences in age and things like that for general student and student well-being. And excuse me, I apologize. In the existing staff at the tech center would be assigned to the elementary schools.
TEXT> And we'll talk  about some of that today.  There is a space problem, though, at the at the elementary schools. And  what I don't see in this that I have is the  allocation of funds  to that to get portable classrooms.  At Disney and at, at bluff for that. But we do have that funded in the, in the Esser monies. We do have that, you know for that. But I that was in the last thing is to align the schedules. And Mr. Pratt will, next week while his staff, he won't be there. They will talk about the schedule of the programs and all the other stuff in the alignment of the seven seven period day.  For next year. So lots of stuff, lots of stuff going on. And all of it is focused on time on learning and student outcomes. Boring. Preface I apologize.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to ask a question to anticipation of tomorrow. Yeah. Changing the the schedule at Stevens is a, I suspect will be an issue with the union, as there

[15443-111] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School — recognised by the chair at [93] | 2023-11-30
PREV> Melissa Lewis: all of my increases for you. Special ed software. You see a line of $1,300, and that is for a new program that our special ed teachers have been trained in. There's a yearly fee for the online component to the program for each user.
TEXT> So the $1,300 is meets that requirement as well as I think it was like a $60 fee for a CBM, which is a progress monitoring tool that our special educators use for our students that one of my special educators was paying out of pocket. And I told her, no, no, no, we don't do that. We get it budgeted appropriately. You'll see my nurse has requested some additional supply  money, and that is literally just due to increased costs.  $1,000 in a nurse's office goes pretty quickly. And with the cost just increase in general,  we added $500 to cover that. My new nurse as well is interested and is working towards becoming a CPR trainer so that she can provide that service for our district. And so under health dues and fees, you see an addition of $285. That's the fees for her to be able to do that, as well as membership to New Hampshire,  Association of School Nurses, so she can stay up to date with all of that. You'll see a new line for me, and that is  in the administrative line for advertising.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I asked for $500 there, and that's so we can advertise visually in front of the school banners and flags and things like that, that will help us attract as

[15443-221] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; finance subcommittee member — anchored  | 2023-11-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm not saying anything.
TEXT> The guidance counselor versus the social worker. So my assumption is. And tell me if I'm wrong, that the social worker would act, would engage on a different level with the families. Correct. Than a guidance counselor? Correct. So this is about expanding more, expanding the services outside of just focusing on the child.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Absolutely. So it's it's it's serving social workers really provide a nice liaison between home and school as well. They have the flexibility to be able to meet families where

[15443-299] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (participating remotely) — named pr | 2023-11-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: Please refresh my refresh. Tell me, how many kids do you have in at bluff right now?
TEXT> Currently? 176.  But I will say that, due to the fact that we had two, few, two fewer teachers this year because of hiring purposes that we'd need that are budgeted for next year, and they're still in this year's budget, but we just didn't hire for, we had to send several of our second graders to Disney to take the overflow. Okay. So right now we're at 176. But I think if we were able to accept all of those students in, we would have been more like  190.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So does this budget reflect a population of 190? Yes.

[15443-326] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 — named in the opening round-robin (' | 2023-11-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: So and maybe this is a question for you then. I mean just conceptually if, if Disney has 256 students and they have 13 pairs and we've got 190 for 18 pairs, is it by the nature of the actual students involved?
TEXT> Yeah, it would be by the nature of nature of the student. And then and then also there's a, there's also a little bit of, gentle back and forth that I might have with regarding the. Okay, great TV cameras.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And, and are all these 18 pairs. I'm asking the right question. Pair twos.

[15443-485] Mark Blunt | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School (participating by telephone) | 2023-11-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: And and the.
TEXT> Intern and making sure that our, you know, that our students are, are literate and, and are able to do math. So, very important roles.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And the interventionists are in the grant funding budget there.

[15444-49] Frank Sprague | Chair, finance/budget subcommittee; Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2023-12-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: For health science.
TEXT> For health science, which, which our kids could access through start even even if we  did not have the person with the master's degree here to teach them, they could access them, through that,  even if they're while participating in a rad tech or whatever it would be, or nursing or whatever the heck we want to have here.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So I, I talked to carry a number of times up at River Valley. They teach an early childhood education program, but there's a lot of things that could align.

[15444-56] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (CTE director) | 2023-12-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Does that teacher, teach personal finance as well as the entrepreneurship?
TEXT> So right now, the first block, he teaches business entrepreneurship. We had about originally 6 or 8 students interested which scheduling conflicts. We wound up with four. And then one student drops. We have three in that class, which is good because it's a brand new teacher. He doesn't have a teaching credential background, so we're putting him on the all four. So he's really learning his way. And then  he has two more blocks in the day. And he's teaching just the juniors personal finance, which is now a requirement by the state.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And so he is on the all four.

[15444-60] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (CTE director) | 2023-12-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: And he is working through that. Correct. When will he be certified.
TEXT> That all four process is three years for any teacher that comes in. So we see that a lot in CTE because we try to recruit from the industry professionals that really know,  Mr. Belanger from the plumbing. And he was working in facilities here.  But that's the kind of guy you're going to work for later.  And so we really have a  lab environment where he acts as a supervisor in there and runs that. Some students don't like it, some students love it. So it's kind of one of those things. But if you're going to be working in that field, that's the kind of personalities you're going to be dealing with. And it's been a really good experience for the students.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Just the obvious question. There's the very first line is celery substitutes and it's 0000.

[15444-79] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; finance/budget subcommittee member | 2023-12-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: Yes. The teachers. So we if they came in and taught with one of our teachers then they could be there. But I couldn't leave them alone in a classroom unless they have their certification in the background check and all that.
TEXT> So we could not just just so I know, I'm sorry, I don't maybe I'm not processing this so we can't send our students there.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We can't send them there.

[15444-150] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (CTE director) | 2023-12-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes. Two questions. Sorry. Go ahead. The career counselor, can you explain to the public and the group the difference between a career counselor and a guidance counselor?
TEXT> Certification is the same. There a teacher technically, that has both backgrounds. Their career counselor would focus more on getting students ready for career oriented careers, such as the tech center, recruiting students, working with them.  To recruit at the high school, we really need to work on our work based learning, getting students out. There's some challenges with our unions, like plumbers. You can't go out to even intern until you're 18. Preferred building systems is fantastic, but they're like, we can't take students unless they're 18.  And that's just company policy. So we've got to figure out some ways to make that work. So our students here get actual work hands on experiences. We had a great relationship with Whelan. We're hoping that we can rekindle that. Where Mr. Pope used to take his manufacturing class out there so that they got a real great on site, but with Covid, that stopped starting back up again seems to be a little bit more of a challenge. But all those kinds of connections with us to help market, promote, sell it to parents, to kids about what they can do for careers. And then the career counselor can help with  resume interviewing  connections. We've talked about a job board trying to put one together. It's just more hands that we need on on deck to make that happen.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So my second question is the culinary program. I know that the culinary program serves the home requirement at the high school. So do you share the teacher salary with

[15444-153] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; finance/budget subcommittee member | 2023-12-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: our kitchen that might be interested in culinary, take a class and then say, hey, I really want to do this next year. And that's a great opportunity for the teacher, one on one, to identify students that could be very successful in that field.
TEXT> And what's the breakdown of what percentage of the students are in the culinary program?
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[15444-164] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; finance/budget subcommittee member | 2023-12-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> And second, it's really more integrated into the business community. Correct. To see see what the jobs are out there and how our students can integrate and how we can set up programs that fulfill the needs of the business community. Correct. So it's a two way it's a much more,  integrated into the business community than the traditional guidance counselor might be.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: And when we had the part time career counselor, we had it for a half time about she would go into the classrooms here and pitch, okay, this is what

[15444-167] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (CTE director) | 2023-12-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Alex, following up the candy's follow up, would this person actually have a caseload? Kids that they were.
TEXT> Yeah. That's something,  you know,  with Mr. Pride on board, we work closely together so that we spent an hour figuring out schedules for next year. All those fun things.  I would work with Mr. Pratt on that to say, how do how do we make this happen with the caseload?  You know, I'd love to see, you know, the Newport model that you had experienced might be something we look at  that the CTE kids would can go talk to this counselor. And then, you know, my instructors have great  industry experience and great industry connections. A number of our students from last year are working in the fields because our teachers were like, you know, you should go apply here  and tell them, put me down as a reference.  And so that's that's the kind of connections we want. We want to amplify that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, one of the things I used to hear is that, my guidance counselor told me I couldn't take the second I couldn't complete because I've got to have algebra

[15444-186] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. So next would be CMS. Mr. Romeo. You're on. Sorry. So again, as I told Mr. Herzog, if you. Could. Give us a thumbnail of of some of the more substantial changes in your budget proposal. Sure. What? The drivers are behind those?
TEXT> Sure.  So we don't have too many new proposals.  The same thing as Doctor Herzog said, we have some supply lines that we've increased.  We were awarded a grant, $97,000 for music instruments. And so with that comes sort of the maintenance and upkeep of that. So I asked for a little bit of an increase  in repairs. So eventually we're going to need to repair some of that stuff. We also received a grant from mountain bikes and snowshoes. And so we're going to need to stipend positions for clubs and activities. So I increase that as well. And then the rest of it going down the line, I know the, the big thing for me that I had  spoken about is the addition of or the keeping of the third counselor. Technically, we have two.  I'm asking that we have three. And the reason behind that simply is  with 367 kiddos and at times we've reached 400. There's always one in crisis.  And that would leave one counselor for the rest of our kids.  We're also introducing having our counselors teach. So following the Asker model  in sixth grade. It's about SL programing.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: In seventh grade, it's about academics. And in eighth grade, it's about sort of the college and career readiness. That track. And so we want all of our counselors to

[15444-189] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Unidentified: You're fine.
TEXT> So I, I think mainly those were the things that were looking at as increases to positions.  I know there's a big question about the student centers. Right. And the dean positions. When I first came here, we did have an academic center, sort of the place where if you had in-school suspension or if you had kiddos that needed to go. That was always in the budget.  I would like to retain at least one of those rooms, sort of as an academic slash behavioral room. And I believe that  you have something similar in your building that is academic and know behavior as rooms. So just looking to keep pace with what the high school has,  and what that can look like.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. So go ahead.

[15444-195] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: So using your current model with grade based teachers right now, how many classes and how many students does do those teachers cover versus going to a more comprehensive. Model, which would be.
TEXT> So right now  we have our kids that take our five core  classes right. So it's English, science, social studies, math and UA. So we have five technically learning blocks in our built in our schedule. We have one through four.  We then have lunch which is an hour and a half. And then we have a fifth block. Our teachers currently teach three out of the five, and the reason that we have done that, there is an increase to the class size, but our teachers sub within our own building. They do the IEP 504. They have lunch duties.  They also work in the student centers with our students. They have team meetings and stuff like that. So that extra block is actually not an extra block of time for them. It's an extra block of time within the school. We have a  you brought up substitutes and I have the line here of $5,000. We don't technically usually sub out from outside the building. We sub within the building because our teachers know our kiddos. And so from a discipline standpoint, it's a lot easier than having somebody from the outside who doesn't know our system. And so we sub for one another. And that's what our schedule allows as well.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And they get a statement for that.

[15444-269] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: So to the point where the with the teachers, what is the average how many how many students does your average teacher and CMS actually educate and be responsible for, for, you know, evaluating etcetera. And what is the standard, the national average?
TEXT> So to answer to the question in the current model in which we have in which our teachers teach  are three out of the five classes, it's come somewhere around,  60 kids. IT classes sizes are around 20. Some are a little higher, some a little lower, just the way the schedule works. If we were to teach four out of the five and take away that extra class, then you're looking at 17 roughly about where where we were. If they taught four out of the five, but then we would lose them for all the duties. We would lose them for covering classes, we would lose them for the student center, 500 for meetings, IEP. So the toss up for us was, do we want our teachers available for more things within our building.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Or or teaching.

[15444-272] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Unidentified: Or.
TEXT> Having smaller class sizes? Right. So our students don't lose out on any educational opportunities. They still have the same amount of classes. It's whether a teacher teaches three out of 5 or 4 out of five, and has a number of duties  and other obligations within the building.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So do you know what the national average?

[15444-277] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 | 2023-12-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: This is probably not your your ability to answer. No worries. But it's in sped. There's a tuition, a decrease of 425,001 increase of private placement of 61,000.
TEXT> Yes. Actually the kids, some of the kids have moved on to the high school. So you're going to see an increase in the high schools.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. And is that why the Sped salaries are down 132,000?

[15444-488] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: What was that, again.
TEXT> Is the $40,000 that we used for all the town fields. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, the city fields that we use. So that's the other big increase you see there in the Athletics for the coaches, you'll see some increases there. And that's based on what we found out is that  a lot of the larger teams only have one coach. And so what we looked at is  looking at hiring some assistant coaches strictly for liability reasons. Because if we have it's an away game and a student gets hurt. Right now we have the coach going to the hospital. No one's going back on the bus with the kids. So you'll see, I think a 23, 20 something increase on the coaching salaries there. And that's what that's about.  Besides that and you'll see little increments, to some of the different departments. And that's because I want to stop budgeting now for when the Esser grants run out to cover the cost of like the, the Excel. And we've, we got the grant for the yonder. So we don't have to worry about that. But down the road we will. So I'm trying to add the money in incrementally to the budget. So it's not one big increase at at 1.1 or 2 years down the road.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. Anybody ready with questions? Just jump right.

[15444-604] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Probably be ten, 20, ten and 12 kids.
TEXT> Yeah, I'd have to ask. We'd have to ask Ben on that. But I know what what we're trying to do. I think the hiccup right now is that, you know, we have the academy now upstairs, and we have about 14 students in that.  But right now, none of them are. None of them are special ed kids. Yeah. And if you recall, we really wanted that program so we could stop bringing kids back. Yeah, right. And we've tried. But the problem is we cannot find special educators to take on that role of level of need, you know, for the students. So I think that's the I mean, that's my opinion. I think that's the hangup right now is finding the the bodies so we can expand the program to get some of these kids from the outside, because the kids who are out of placement right now, we don't have the the bodies to get them into the program.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I mean, I understand I'm an English major and I'm not that great at math, but even I can figure out that that's about 10% of the class is out

[15444-631] Frank Sprague | Chair, finance/budget subcommittee; Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2023-12-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We don't feel it's sustainable. So we're trying to.
TEXT> The other concern I have having worked in Newport for so many years is I, I have to express my concern as to,  and I hate to say this because I've benefited greatly from from the Orion group, but I worry about the what the kids are actually getting in a place like Granite Hill.  And really what they're being exposed to is Granite Hills, an offshoot of Orion House, which,  deals with a lot of kids that are involved in the court system. So I worry about that a lot, having dealt firsthand with some of those kids at Newport. So,  we really need to look at that. If they're at Granite Hill, I think as a that, I mean, I see that as a temporary kind of waypoint along the way. On your way back to, to school, you know, you've been the you've done your, your penance, you're halfway back, you're in Granite Hill, and then you go back to your or you come back to your home school, but, have kids there for a year after year. I just don't that's good.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mike.

[15444-1284] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; finance/budget subcommittee member | 2023-12-01
PREV> Mary Henry: Yes. That's on my list to, to get some ranges.
TEXT> To that point. I think it's important that the community has an opportunity to digest this before we have our deliberative session. Right. And this gets brought out to the community, because I think there's going to be some some misconceptions about what this means for the education at Claremont,  a CMS, and it needs to be parsed out and relate in a way where there's a full understanding of what the teaching equity is and the impact, the negative impact, in my opinion, of not having the most highly qualified professionals actively engaged in educational activities at CMS, and that there's there's actually a benefit I would see as a benefit, but that's me as a layperson that from the medical profession, I can't imagine having a physician doing something that a nursing assistant would be doing. That would be a gross mismanagement of resources and a disservice to the to patients. So I can only directly translate that into this kind of a situation. But unless it's presented in a way that the community can digest it as not a negative, but a, a net positive for the student population, I think we may have a situation where there's going to be a demand or a, a, a disconnect about the validity of this budget change and the impact of the  schedule change.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I'm interested in teacher reaction to that because that's a substantial change.

[15451-35] Frank Sprague | Chair, Claremont School Board Finance Committee; Vice Chair, Claremont | 2023-12-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> And,  the title of this page is sunset. Additional staff funded by federal Esser positions intended to mitigate student learning loss due to impact the impact of Covid.  And then it is a number of things. And for example, if I look at  the middle school, there are  academic deans and CMS academic center structure remaining at CMS. And when I look at CMS.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And we've already. Asked for that information.

[15451-224] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Let me ask a question. Why do we have a career counselor at the tech, when normally that sits within the guidance department at the high school?
TEXT> There's a difference between  I know this because I've been working on the visioning committee and a career council. That's a lot different than guidance counselor. First of all, the high school, the counselors are not called guidance counselors. They're called school counselors because they don't focus on just guidance. And we were told that repeatedly that they are not guidance counselors at the high school. Okay. And the career counselor work at the tech center is one who works out in the community with employers much more than the guidance person. Yes, yes, yes. Goes out, sees the jobs that, that the tech center will be training the students for. What are the,   job requirements that need to be trained and placement of some of those kids in, in the programs after they've been to the tech center, let's place them out in the community in the jobs they're going to be doing later. That's what a career council. It's very different.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So your director doesn't do that because I guess. No, no. If the size of your tech center and I'm looking at equivalents, I don't know of anybody in the

[15451-259] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - named by Heather Whitney at segme | 2023-12-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: number? That would be helpful for me. Okay. So we have documentation previously that we have a budget positive impact of 300,000 for fiscal year 2026. That was where we started from. That sounds like we're starting from a different budget impact with this proposal.
TEXT> But that's not real. So looking so looking at positions that we have not been able to fill and understanding a teacher shortage and understanding that. And historically we have not had full year science and social studies. So we've had less teachers in the building. What we're looking to do is make sure that we had science and social studies full year, but recognizing we can run a schedule that will allow more of our teachers to meet with more of our students. So, in other words, right now our teachers teach three out of the five blocks that we have. Right? And the reason is, is there's a lot of duties that they do during the day. Student centers, we sub for one another those type of things. We also have an enrichment block which is opposite our lunch, which is sort of a project based learning in which teachers also see students. So that is academic time as well. But recognizing that we may not be able to fill all the positions, and also understanding that we want more of our teachers to see more of our students, what we did was ask them now for next year, instead of having  up to four six teachers per content area. So in other words, six for Ela, six for math, six for science, six for social studies.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: We're able to extend our schedule out another block, which takes us from 56 minutes to 42 minutes, roughly of instructional time. Right? 45. Sorry. 4545 because we took passing

[15451-260] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - named by Heather Whitney at segme | 2023-12-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: teachers to see more of our students, what we did was ask them now for next year, instead of having up to four six teachers per content area. So in other words, six for Ela, six for math, six for science, six for social studies.
TEXT> We're able to extend our schedule out another block, which takes us from 56 minutes to 42 minutes, roughly of instructional time. Right? 45. Sorry. 4545 because we took passing time out  and allow the teachers that we have instead of teaching three out of there now going to be teaching four out of this six blocks. Plus they will be doing an enrichment block, which is a project based learning block. So we are giving our teachers  more time with our students by extending out the blocks that we have. We were concentrating everything into one and recognizing if we spread out a little bit more. We utilize the teachers that we have and don't have to have some of those classes like we talked about a civics class or something like this.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Will be full year.

[15451-262] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - named by Heather Whitney at segme | 2023-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: Will be full year.
TEXT> Yes, they're all full year classes.  And the, the, the hardest thing to do for us at CMS, we only have five classes to offer our students math, science, social studies, English and the you when you extend out another block. We don't have foreign language, right. We don't have advanced classes per se. So what we have to do is be creative with what other block or our students going to have. So that's why we doubled up with UA giving them exposure to be able to advance some of those classes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I'm a U, a teacher and I teach PE.

[15451-294] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - named by Heather Whitney at segme | 2023-12-18
PREV> Miss Foster: they have lagging skills in their content area. And sitting down with a teacher 1 to 1 outside of their peers, looking at them can make an enormous difference in getting them back on track and back ready to reenter the classroom as a whole.
TEXT> I've also seen them use so as a teacher.  And I've been asked this because I taught social studies. There's no studies teacher that's working on a project. And if you're going to take 22 kids to the library, that's a lot to be able to get to everybody. So this somebody from the student center may assist and go, what's the project you're working on? I could take some of your kids right now without you either having to leave the class or,  or be able to split up equally so that I can work with the kiddos as well, so we can accomplish what you have in place.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So these learning. Center, there's there's no staff for these learning centers other than the teachers on a rotation basis.

[15451-308] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - named by Heather Whitney at segme | 2023-12-18
PREV> Miss Foster: may. They are not. Most most of the time they've started. They started there. Yeah. And then something happened. Either they got overwhelmed and they asked to go to the Academic center for support or there was a behavior issue. And so a behavior issue.
TEXT> Is I an admin gets called down normally. Traditionally an admin gets called down for a behavioral issue. That'll happen. So do does a student need to be removed. Does a student just need a break. Does the student need to catch up on some work. What is what needs to happen? And that's the idea behind what that student center is and the person that serves inside that side.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Can you tell me about the incidence of occurrence that this happens?

[15451-350] Miss Foster | Claremont Middle School staff member who built the proposed CMS master | 2023-12-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> And that person also attends like as part of that team. They're usually in those meetings so they can do that collaboration. You're talking about about behavioral. That's an important part of those student meetings.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So they'll they'll attend all grade level meetings with student concerns so that they can get feedback and understanding of what's happening in the classrooms.

[15451-438] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - named by Heather Whitney at segme | 2023-12-18
PREV> Unidentified: That's not right. Right right, right. Thank you. Right. That's right. Is that,
TEXT> I have preached the the social emotional need. Of right. Of my, my community and my school. And if I had the wand, yes, I would put an act two academic centers in with a tier one person that would be able to staff that, along with administration and the teacher cycle that we have, because it does add and provide more to our students that we need, right. In addition, the third counselor. But I get and I know you have to do what you do. My job is to absolutely advocate for the needs of my building, and.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm glad you do it.

[15451-553] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Them do rooms.
TEXT> What's happening to those kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: They're they're they've combined for.

[15451-878] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - addressed by | 2023-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: I misunderstood.
TEXT> When I was asking when I, when I was kind of trying to parry a little bit with Mr. Romeo is, you know, how can we get what we need for our students in the most cost effective way? And what do we need to maintain what we have now? So to me, there wasn't having Mr. Romeo, Principal Romeo come up and and walk through that schedule was really helpful. But I need to know what what is discretionary. And that's really all I need to know. What what can we make a decision about without reducing what our students are getting now, like our bare bones and work from there? Like I'm always working from zero budget and going up instead of the big budget and going back down. So for instance, we're talking so.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What process would you like to use?

[15451-895] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - addressed by | 2023-12-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: At is.
TEXT> Is honestly, we I think we have to decide as a board or as, as a finance committee. Like what are what are we consider the solid bare minimum to be to be able to provide our students what they need and simply work from there. And because that's what that's the what is. I mean, we can say we have a target number, and I'm not necessarily saying that I want I want to go above that target increase. But our our goals and values are we want to build space in the budget to make sure that we are adequately paying staff so we can attract the best and the brightest and stop having this yoyo staffing. And and we almost are cannibalizing our staff at times, I think. I mean.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We don't even have staff. I mean, there's many.

[15451-899] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - addressed by | 2023-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: Even the teachers.
TEXT> Correct. So when I am looking at this budget, I am looking at like, what's my long term aim and what am I trying to provide to the district in the next five years? And what do we need to do to create a budget that is going to support that  long term goal, as well as not  harming our ability to give our students what we need, as on the short, you know,  at a short term goal. So what do we have at our discretion?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So what you're saying.

[15451-980] Frank Sprague | Chair, Claremont School Board Finance Committee; Vice Chair, Claremont | 2023-12-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: it's a fair budget. I think the budget over the past 4 or 5 years has had little increases in it overall. And, and we have, I don't know, in our standing in the region and with our, with our contracts has gone up immensely.
TEXT> One of the things about the what, what concerns me about the middle school proposal is that, what we got here talks about academics, learning loss, student learning loss. And what I'm hearing from Mr. Romeo  is, social, emotional. And so, but we don't we were never I mean, it would be would have been very helpful  to have gotten over the last two years of pumping hundreds of thousands of dollars into interventions, again, most most of it being Esser money into deans and social, you know, social workers or whatever all these supports are. It would have been nice to see how they track their data, if it's power school or Swiss data or what they have. But it would have been nice to see for me to make these decisions. It would have been nice to see that something actually worked  and I didn't. I mean, he's telling me that it helped.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I don't.

[15451-999] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - addressed by name by Candace Crawfo | 2023-12-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Know, but I think that's why they did it to get the class sizes down. That's why they have the combined.
TEXT> Yes. Yeah. That's the that's the model of control that they, they don't want to give up with that. The kids are still is it the control of having small classes for the for the kids particularly with the sixth graders. They, they increase at the seventh and eighth.  But they.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: They need bigger classes or smaller classes at the highest.

[15452-253] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - Sprague says at segment 1 "we'v | 2023-12-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right. Okay. Now, back to my question. Oh, you said that the director that question is coming under item for. Got it. Okay. All right. Keep going.
TEXT> Okay. Let's see. So at a district that's obviously a very significant budget item. We're looking at relatively no significant change there. In terms of what we're forecasting for next year. One of the big shifts you'll see in the budget lines is that, there the the vast majority of the students that are currently out placed have aged up. Yeah. It's almost captured entirely in the high school, out of district budget numbers.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Do you have a. Round number of how many other district placements we have?

[15452-309] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - Sprague says at segment 1 "we'v | 2023-12-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: So do those positions not exist anymore?
TEXT> No. The. I tried to do a brief history of it. At the elementary school level, there's the principal and then the student service coordinator. Yeah. And those were those were put in many, many years ago under Middleton, I believe.  And they weren't they weren't special ed trained individuals. They at the time, they were more social work type background or working with that risk youth and things like that. You know, it's morphed a little bit over time.  At the at the middle school level, there was a long time special ed coordinator, that was there up until two years ago when we, when we made an effort to reduce the budget by cutting that position out and splitting the special ed coordinator position at the high school with the middle school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: The special ed coordinator. Okay.

[15452-395] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; finance/budget subcommittee - named by  | 2023-12-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And working side by side with the skilled principal. Yeah as well. And that used to be the model. As well.
TEXT> For direction oversight. Program planning. Checking meeting criteria, meeting benchmarks for those kids. It. Yeah. That is so important.
NEXT> Ben Nester: It is, it is. And our early childhood program needs an entire revamp, as we've discussed. I mean, I would certainly support leaving the director position in. But if just,

[15453-93] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: It's good.
TEXT> I have a comment and a question. I my comment is thank you for the time that you all have put into this process. I mean, the hours, the Thursday night, the Friday today. Thank you for doing that and having the opportunity. I've tried to watch and as I was watching, I was thinking, I wish I had the binder because I could follow as it was done. So hopefully there will be time for me over the weekend before Wednesday. So I'll know what questions to ask. But I'll have that video in front of me as well. My question has to do with one of the levels, one of the school levels, where it was a discussion about a reduction in staff and. I don't know what the plan is or was, but for me, I I'd like to know what that's going to look like in the course of that school experience for those teachers and for those students before I'm asked to vote to do that. I don't know if I'm.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: No. Yes. For the same thing.

[15453-112] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the policy subcommittee - she  | 2023-12-06
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Quick if you're looking.
TEXT> At the agenda, it says we're doing a presentation on the operational guide and delegation of policy audits, but we're not quite there yet. So that presentation. Is probably going to come in January.  So this presentation is an update on our activities and what the what the school board policy. The Claremont School Board Policy Committee has been up to what we're doing and where we're going.  For the sake of transparency, for the sake of understanding of for everyone to know what the policy committee does and is doing. And to keep me on my toes. So we're moving forward with our, our objectives. So our current activities  are can be put into two buckets. The first one is an audit of the Claremont School Board Policy Manual. In this process we have drafted a policy Audit tracker spreadsheet that is part of a shared Google Drive for the Claremont School Board Policy Committee. All of the all of the committee members are included on it, and all of the administration members are included on that shared drive. And anyone else on the school board who wants to be part of that shared drive can be added to it.  Right now it's still being organized. So the main the most important things that you'll see in there are like just a few files, the audit tracker, a couple of folders.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: And I can go into more detail about those individually on a one on one basis. Just just email me or call me. So while we've been as part of

[15455-120] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board member - the chair recognis | 2023-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: I can open one. That they had friends visiting.
TEXT> And I'm down on the floor and the kids run in and they're looking. At me, and I just want to go. But I couldn't.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[15471-36] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - addressed by name by Candace Crawfo | 2023-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah. Interested in that part.
TEXT> So the one part I want to be clear on this is this schedule is not all the way. It's  not it's not it's we haven't gone into the weeds with it.  With the middle school. We haven't done that. All I was doing is looking at a way for more equity for both,  schools and also knowing the other needs in the elementary schools. So if some of the staffing were shifted to other places, I think it would benefit students more.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So how do how did the staff, how's the staff and, and the Syria responding to this?

[15471-59] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I know I want them, I want them to talk about it. I've, I've only I've seen the numbers and I know that there's two sections and I have to crosswalk this with them.
TEXT> One of my concerns is again the before the horse,  agreeing to this budget and this level of expenditure for the teaching line before pretty much anything has worked out. I mean, it sounds like you have a plan, but that it hasn't been cross-referenced with teachers, with the union, with parents. Correct.  And that's a concern for me. I feel like if I, if I saw the plan, if I saw how  it had worked out with the s, I how I could see how the teachers at the middle school were on board with this. And and if you showed how  it made sense for student and student achievement, that would be a lot easier for it to accept.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah.

[15471-73] Frank Sprague | Chair, Claremont School Board Finance Committee; Vice Chair, Claremont | 2023-12-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: You're talking about the high school now.
TEXT> I'm talking about the high school. So I don't know how. But having looked at  with a variety of data teams over the years, looking at particularly, as you said, math, world language, music, these types of things, they do much better in a full year format. Other courses do not  necessarily, but I am concerned with the,  what happened,  as I expressed earlier,  kids getting to calculus, for example, in when they without having to double up, which, seems like a taller doubling with a pre-calculus and advanced math or Algebra two. That plus the  when the kids if they do have a whoops. When did when do they make it up.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: In the summer.

[15471-75] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - named by Tem | 2023-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: In the summer.
TEXT> So just a question to that point is for me, having I think having a heavy class load, if you are somebody who's working towards an honors diploma, makes you feel  more prepared for a college environment. I think that we're putting kids in college environments now. And I can say that because I had once one of my children graduated from this district and one of my children graduated from a private school, that was much more rigorous. And I can tell you that they both had fantastic grades. Yeah, but one of them was able to handle the pressure of college academic requirements better than the other.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Oh no doubt. I mean, my own my own son, took advanced math at the middle school and was unable to get sequentially get the next course his first

[15471-92] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: And three guidance counselors.
TEXT> Three guidance counselors. And, Two assistant principals, three deans, a social worker, three guidance counselors. And thinking it's all about the education of what the kids in the class teaching. And and it looks like we have a huge answer. Yes. Yeah. And I mean, that's not even talking about the Paris.  And, I mean, and as I've spoken before, the concept of deans, academic deans that are Paris drives me nuts. That's that that's an oxymoron.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I do. So here's.

[15471-109] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: All right. So is it is it safe to say we're just not ready to like talk about this further because we don't have the. Yeah. I mean, like, I don't want to waste if we don't have.
TEXT> I mean, I think you I think you've heard some of our concerns, and I think that the, the academic impact for the students, you know, what's the justification? That still isn't clear to me. And I, I don't want to replace teachers with, with  agreed.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We see it the same way.

[15471-111] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We see it the same way.
TEXT> And it sounds like, my God,  it's principals, assistant principals, academic deans, social worker, guidance counselor, academic center. The kids don't have any time to be in class.  And that that whole configuration just leaves me cold.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, I haven't seen any evidence that there's been academic achievement with this model.

[15471-146] Frank Sprague | Chair, Claremont School Board Finance Committee; Vice Chair, Claremont | 2023-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: And I see that. Right. And I do think I mean, I understand, Mr. Tempesta, you know, working out the numbers, you know, you can make the numbers work. We want to see the the social and economic benefits, not just manipulating the numbers around.
TEXT> Well, it says right in the second paragraph here that the,  a proposed by the principles remain in the local budget as they have positively impacted student achievement. That's your point, is that. I. Don't see it. We haven't seen it. We haven't seen that.  I'm going to ask just an odd one off question.  And and then we can onto some other thoughts. So I was looking on what's up Claremont yesterday and well, it's a legit thing. And people were wondering about  and people are legitimately worried about their tax rate. And there was  several people  had asked city councilors Nick and Bill and they said, we're waiting on the school district. Yeah. And so,  we've never had an actual budget now,  I don't think,  we really won't have a budget until something.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It's not. The two aren't related.

[15471-271] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: And, and it's a subject matter that they probably aren't familiar with. And and so. If we're buying the two things for in this year's budget, then don't cost anything. And the staff is going to the new ones, and we're not having a director.
TEXT> I see and hear that the estimated impact of this is $100,000. And why couldn't why is there an increase if none of that what I just said, and I am still concerned about the kids in the preschool program a have some success and show me how  just moving around without having some direction, coordination and God save us curriculum,  how they can, how we can expect them to be successful. Okay, that's my concern.
NEXT> Ben Nester: I would just say review the review, the documents that I've already shared regarding the recommendations. Heather, I just shared a document with you that you didn't have. I put

[15471-346] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - named by Tem | 2023-12-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: hump obstacles that surfaced when we talked about restructuring, so that it could be more local to the school than it mitigates a lot of those things that, that we encountered previously. So that that that's also one of the goals, many of the goals.
TEXT> So if I'm going to summarize this for me, what I'm hearing and I think I'm right about this, is that this move out of the technical center is not necessarily  a invigorate  of the program. It's not really redesigning the program. It is freeing space up. The purpose of doing this is to more closely align,  special education and preschool services with the typical standard that is seen in other districts and is commonly accepted as the. The more  I don't know what's the word I'm looking for. Standard of care is what I would use in my biz  standard of service. Provision. Sustainable  and the and how that is going to occur is that the children will physically be next to schools where they can actively walk across the parking lot, go into the school, participate in special activities, or have special activity. Teachers come into these new classrooms because of proximity. Makes that easier simply because of proximity. They'll have more access to  nursing services that is not provided currently here am I?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It is provided here, but it's the same situation now. We'll have it in two spaces.

[15471-351] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - addressed as "Ben" by Candace C | 2023-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: moving the students to proximity to services that will make servicing those students more efficient and more effective. It's we're not making this change right now to revamp the preschool program. It's to maximize available resources into free up space at the sugar River tech.
TEXT> Right. There's two other big benefits that I want to put out there. That's what. We do believe will affect student achievement.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[15471-414] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: your point. How are we going to make sure that there's equity in those schools and how we are allocating our FTEs? And the global social worker that we have now that operates on a district level, what's going to happen with with that time?
TEXT> The support staff is important. Yes. But I don't want the support staff to be running the show. I want the support staff to be support staff. I want the focus on education and and delivery of services to those kids to improve their scores. And  I don't want them budget to be spent on, you know, nurses, social workers, guidance people,  academic centers, campus monitors,  academic deans, you know. You've got my point.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Questions for us.

[15472-115] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - the chair gives him the floor at 10 | 2023-12-14
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I'm now the amended part of the agenda. Additional business, Mr. Tempesta.
TEXT> Yeah. So I, I, it's a tough one, so I, I regret to inform the, the board that, Ben Nestor has a is going to leave us. He has accepted a position as the director of student services in Lebanon, and. We're having. Him for his career. But we're a little crushed, so he's  done an amazing job.  For the last nine years in Claremont. And,  obviously for the FAA, you as well. I from my perspective, absolute,  advocate for all students, staff in the rights of students. Arguably the toughest job in any school district to do that ethically and keep costs down and, and, happy for him, but, a little bit, a little bit, a. Lot crushed. I'm saying. But, yes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: One is it immediately or.

[15472-130] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Joint Board Chair; Claremont School Board member - presides thro | 2023-12-14
PREV> Unidentified: Oh. Did you give any?
TEXT> Mr. Nestor, we wish you well and know that we are truly saddened. And I've not been on this board very long. But the willingness I see of you to to communicate, to talk, to work out the best thing and your compassion and commitment to the students is quite evident. So we hate to see you go, but congratulations to you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes, congratulations.

[15472-133] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - his own onset, clipped into the | 2023-12-14
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: You will be missed.
TEXT> Thank you. I just I'll say that I. I've valued my time here and especially the relationships that I've built with the the kids, the families and the and the staff. So, you know, it's always have a special place.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: How long have you been here?

[15483-16] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative, Sullivan District 8; member of the | 2023-12-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: regarding personal complaints regarding school personnel, or complaints against any person connected to the school system. Complaints regarding individual employees must and will be directed to the Superintendent of Schools. And is there anyone wishing to speak to comments at this time? No, Miss Daimon.
TEXT> Thank you and good evening. I'm Hope Daimon, state representative for Sullivan district eight. I serve on House Education Committee and I am just here to give a quick update on proceedings.  The House will resume full sessions on January 3rd. We have a lengthy list of retained bills, including about 20 education related bills to address at that time. The two retain bills on education that I would in particular highlight are HB 268,  which if passes would require nonpublic schools and education service providers if they accept public funds to perform background checks on all employees and designated volunteers. So it's essentially we put in place the same background checks that you public schools do now everywhere else. And it is a highly debated bill. So any input is appreciated on that. And then also HB 601, which is Medicaid direct certification for free and reduced meals, meaning that if that bill were to pass, children who are already enrolled in Medicaid, that would be communicated from the Department of Health and Human Services to the Department of Education, and then to school districts to automatically enroll those children in free and reduced lunches, thereby increasing our ability to address hunger and food insecurity so that there are other many retained bills.
NEXT> Hope Damon: But I would just highlight those two in particular. And then just going forward, we have, I believe, somewhere in the 800 something number of bills in total at the

[15483-17] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative, Sullivan District 8; member of the | 2023-12-20
PREV> Hope Damon: the Department of Health and Human Services to the Department of Education, and then to school districts to automatically enroll those children in free and reduced lunches, thereby increasing our ability to address hunger and food insecurity so that there are other many retained bills.
TEXT> But I would just highlight those two in particular.  And then just going forward, we have,  I believe, somewhere in the 800 something number of bills in total at the House and probably 150 to 200 at the Senate coming forward for the 2024 session, which as a first time rep, I'm told that there's supposed to be less work in the second year. It doesn't look like that. That's not a complaint, just an observation. I am co-sponsoring several education related bills and the several that I want to just quickly highlight.  1014 would require school districts and private high schools to develop programs that inform students about registering to vote. It's not in any way requiring voter registration. It's nonpartisan. It's simply saying part of our education should be helping students be aware of how do you become a registered voter? It suggests, but does not require collaboration with election.  Officials in municipalities.  And then also 1087 would establish a commission to study information literacy and media literacy in public schools, basically looking at how do we help our kids know what they need to know to handle all kinds of media appropriately and effectively.  And we are  revisiting new bill number,  one 109, which would require school ID cards for kids from grades six through 12 to include the helpline from the National Alliance for Eating Disorders.
NEXT> Hope Damon: A very similar bill last year did make it to the governor's desk, and we actually had to ask him to veto it, which is very not the way you

[15483-46] Alex Hill | Teacher, Claremont Middle School; resident of Ward 3 - self-identifies | 2023-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: Three, three, three.
TEXT> I'm in Ward three.  I am also a  teacher at the middle school.  I would like to  share my opinion on this. Talk about altering the middle school schedule.  I was on the middle school scheduling committee for a number of years, and  over those years, we attempted to address concerns that we had with student achievement and student engagement. Based on hard data that we were getting through our PBIs, that's a behavior tracking system that we used to use. We now use something slightly different,  and we made changes to our schedule to come to where we are now.  My understanding is that there is a push to go from a five classes a day to a seven classes a day. Which is a little confusing because we teach Ela, math, science illustrates. And then we have a unified arts, and that's five classes.  I'm not sure where the extra two classes would come from without hiring, say, like a foreign language, which would be sweet, like bring it.   But if we were to go from a five class to a seven class schedule, that would go from a 55 minute class to a 45 minute class, and over the course of a one quarter, which is where I see most of my classes, that is ten minutes times 45 days, which is 4450 minutes of instruction time lost.
NEXT> Alex Hill: And I've heard an argument before that this would increase the amount of instruction time with students. The students are there all day, but this would decrease the amount of

[15483-50] Sarah Ferland | School counselor, Claremont Middle School; resident of Ward 3 - self-i | 2023-12-20
PREV> Sarah Ferland: just really feel if we go this road that a lot of people will leave. And the sad part is for the teachers is that if we feel like it's not a good place for us or that's not going to work, we can leave.
TEXT> But the kids, unfortunately, they have to stay.  They don't have that choice.  The A's will have, like, 23 kids, which is a very big number. When I was there, there was two UA teachers for every,  UA, and that left them with like 12 kids per class and in classes like tech ed or, you know, very hands on classes, that could be a problem. There are no deans to deal with some of the behaviors that are going on.  One less counselor. And without those positions, I would not. If we go down to two counselors, I would not be able to teach my UA. And that's like psycho education for all the kids in the school.  Also, there won't be as many people to de-escalate or deal with issues. And then when we have that problem, what we feel is we can't address everything. Then parents need to come in and talk with us and we have to have parent meetings. This pulls us more away from dealing with the children. So yes, I guess in conclusion, I just want to say that I think that, you know, I think it's maybe trying to lessen the bleed, but I think it would be if we went to this proposed schedule, I think it would be more like a bleed out.
NEXT> Sarah Ferland: I have a son who's coming next year, and I think with this proposed schedule, the teachers will be teaching way more students, which will be harder for them to

[15483-53] Tom Smith | Music teacher (band and chorus) and unified arts team leader, Claremon | 2023-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Hello and good evening. My name is Tom Smith.  I am the music teacher. I teach music band and chorus at the at Claremont Middle School. I'm also the unified arts team leader.  This is my eighth year in the district. My colleagues and I are here this evening to express our strong disagreement concerning the proposed schedule and staffing changes at Claremont Middle School. The CMS staff spends every day making student centered decisions. I personally believe that the,  the these decisions are not being made with students in mind. The CMS team has worked diligently over the last several years under Frank Romeo's leadership to fully fleshed out our supports of students despite constant, constant change in staff turnover. We have created a schedule and systems in place that enable us to support students not only academically, but socially and emotionally. These proposed changes will force us to attempt to maintain this progress with one hand tied behind their back, students academic success and emotional and social growth will suffer,  putting more responsibility and more workload on less teachers and expecting the same results will lead to a decrease in staff  morale and a decrease in retention. Thank you so much for your time.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[15483-60] Russ Fernald | Civics teacher, Claremont Middle School - self-identifies at segment 9 | 2023-12-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there anyone else that would like to speak or stand in a show of support for what folks have said?
TEXT> I'll try.  By name is Russ Fernald.  Civics middle school  CMS. I've taught for 20 years in Texas. We went to I was teaching last year six classes in high school, 48 minute classes. I can tell you that at the end of the school day, we were whipped. I mean, whipped,  usually 25 plus kids.  I came here,  this is the first time in my educational career where the teachers could actually take the time to  look into individual students down south. We only talked about curriculum here. We actually talk about kids. Right? And you just don't have that time when you're whipped.  Just looking at Mr. Romeo and his leadership on this, the commitment is amazing. I mean, it's amazing comparatively.  So I just, just from teaching in that system coming here, and I grew up here, and I know the system. We had time to do things, you know,  in middle school, play  hockey or something. That time that the kids, these kids that have incredible amounts of energy to do something like that, to do enrichment makes a huge difference to the learning day. And so it may  look like a good decision. I can tell you.  I've, I've seen the other the other side of this standardized testing down south where, where education is so focused on scores, we you know, we have such diverse levels here.
NEXT> Russ Fernald: Those scores are going to be incredibly hard to bring up with all these different levels. That's just public public schools. So if you're looking at test scores, it's not

[15483-61] Russ Fernald | Civics teacher, Claremont Middle School - self-identifies at segment 9 | 2023-12-20
PREV> Russ Fernald: day. And so it may look like a good decision. I can tell you. I've, I've seen the other the other side of this standardized testing down south where, where education is so focused on scores, we you know, we have such diverse levels here.
TEXT> Those scores are going to be incredibly hard to bring up with all these different levels. That's just public public schools. So if you're looking at test scores,  it's not going to help. The other thing I noticed when I came here is everybody comes to school. Yeah, this is a country either country schools.  But there was a culture of skipping down south and that that comes from this, just trying to cram everything into 48 minutes, put more onto the students. I mean, they were they were tired. The kids were tired. They mentally tired.  So I just wanted to bring that perspective here to y'all. Briefly. Thank you.
NEXT> Katie Smith Knox: Hi, I'm Katie Smith Knox. I teach Ela sixth grade at the middle school. I've been at CMS for almost a decade. This is my eighth year and I've stayed

