[10002-587] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named by Pfeifer [134] and O'Neill [3 | 2018-09-13
PREV> Cory LeClair: position and we're just, you know, we never needed it. And and now we're finally just getting to the point of cutting it. It's that we've done an astronomical amount of work in the last three years, and we are in a much different place.
TEXT> We have, I think it's proprietary information now, that we've developed over the last few years and prior to these last three years, you would have a science teacher leave and they'd take everything with them and literally have a new science teacher walk into a middle school classroom. And they're not even be a textbook available. So we've changed practice to get to a point where I think that as we are looking forward, we can accommodate the reduction of that position in this budget because I'm also very sensitive to the impact on tax rate of this budget in every budget. And so we need to be able to weigh those things. And what's in the best interest of our students and our teachers. And I think that with some slight adjustments, we can continue to make forward progress and also have a benefit to the taxpayers. I just wanted to explain that further, because I think it was something that, you know, that's kind of a big deal  to reduce that position. And I just want to give that conversation. It's due diligence.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. So you had a big hand in the curriculum position previously when Kathleen was here, before she went to me, I did I still did a big role in

[10002-754] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Steve' [182],[295],[735] | 2018-09-13
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: question? Sorry, I, I, I want to know I'm just curious about the thought process related. You only having one say you member when or one staff from the say you. I'm just curious as opposed to more as opposed to more than one one.
TEXT> I was trying to keep the numbers down. I figured that made sense to keep the numbers down, to keep this process moving forward somewhat quickly. The other reason I thought of that is, is that I'm thinking the the at the end of the day, there's all these people that work in the  office. Their jobs are minor compared to what we're looking for. At the end of the day, we're looking for the people who are interacting with the children's leadership. And I think that's why it's more important to have the boots on the ground building administrators involved with the process, then basically middle management.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Okay, can I try another. Explanation that may not be yours? So forgive me. I think if we look at it from the standpoint. That the SA. Has a, a

[10002-758] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michelle' [350],[777],[8 | 2018-09-13
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: and I assume you guys talk amongst yourselves and share information and, and so this I would imagine I would see the s a representative as, as as representing the staff of the SA. I would see the building principals is representing their staff. Michelle.
TEXT> I'd like to remove myself and maybe we can come to a determination that way. At least I'll pull back and I don't need to do that one crossing that decision. But I'm just gonna make that finish. I'm just trying to say that if anybody doesn't want to do it, step up and say, we're not interested now and then. That'll field out and make it easier. I mean, this, this, this is about the kids. Ultimately, it's about all of the people that work. And this person has to be someone who, you know, is going to be phenomenal. And and whoever, there's not a right person, any one of us alone to pick the person. Because in the end, we're all going to vote together on a person. So I'd like to keep that in mind.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Okay. We have. Thank you. We have a motion for two of.

[10002-907] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named by Pfeifer [134] and O'Neill [3 | 2018-09-13
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: I had.
TEXT> I'm using actually that tool beyond just as a staff because I think it's a viable tool and we need to ensure that we're evaluating all staff. So if there's no other designated tool in place for certain populations of staff, that's what I'm using with those folks. So I had three meetings this week, seven meetings set up next week, a few more to catch up, but I'll have my s a youth, folks.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: We'll we'll have the process that was outlined. We are meeting the timelines and following the process. Okay. Are there any questions? Carolyn?

[10012-5] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter, grandparent of a Disnard student (did | 2018-09-19
PREV> Unidentified: that has has a knowledge and the whereabouts to keep it within the school and keep it within the faculty rather than publicize it? My next question is, with that is, like I brought up last time, the cost for parents that can't afford it.
TEXT> And I understand that I wrote right in there that somebody said it costs $5. I've never seen one for under $12. So I'd like to be able to find out what the name of the thing is and be able to have it on hand so I can purchase it.  But the thing is, also with this,  bus system, the bus route my granddaughter gets picked up from Nema to does not every, every day. And I know how they were saying I think it was bluff that has that universal breakfast and lunch program. I think that's the school that has it. There's no way Disney is ever going to be able to reach that level, because my granddaughter gets picked up at 8:25 every day. That does not for does not school. And she gets there right at 830. Breakfast is over. How can any school meet the level that the other school is doing when the kids aren't getting there in time to be able to have breakfast? I know I can give my granddaughter a breakfast every morning if I have to, and I have no qualms doing that. But some of these other parents don't have that ability.
NEXT> Unidentified: And if the bus isn't picking up like my granddaughter until 25 past, what time is that school bus getting to the school with all those kids on it? So

[10012-6] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter, grandparent of a Disnard student (did | 2018-09-19
PREV> Unidentified: the kids aren't getting there in time to be able to have breakfast? I know I can give my granddaughter a breakfast every morning if I have to, and I have no qualms doing that. But some of these other parents don't have that ability.
TEXT> And if the bus isn't picking up like my granddaughter until 25 past, what time is that school bus getting to the school with all those kids on it? So there's no way anybody in Disney will ever get a universal breakfast or lunch because the school busses are picking up so late, and I think that might be something you might want to look at, giving the kids the ability at that particular school to have the breakfast. And maybe that might be something to look at in the long run. Thank you for your time.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Thank you. Thank you.

[10012-21] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter, grandparent of a Disnard student (did | 2018-09-19
PREV> Steven Horsky: into this policy. But it was better than having no policy. As far as the headlights goes where everybody can just deal with it. Okay. So it was it was kind of a happy medium between no NIT and the existing policy before that. Okay.
TEXT> Because that was my concern. Because you got to have if this saying sorry presents with it and all of a sudden you're going to be checking that child for the next four days. But for those next four days, that child is going to be on the bus with every other kid, possibly passing it on before it gets under control. So other than that, the only other thing I could I could think of is allowing the kids to wear hats to school so they can keep their heads covered. I don't know if that's something that might want to be played into effect, because I know at the end of last year, on occasion, kids were allowed to wear hats in school. I don't know if that's was the school doing it or the school board doing it, but I know for a couple days last year,  the kids were allowed to wear hats in school. I wonder if that's something that could also play into it. So thank you for your time. Thank you, thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Any other citizens? I'd like to address the board. Seeing none, we'll close citizens comments. We'll transition into discussion items. The board questionnaire for fiscal year 15 audit.

[10012-25] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member ('Go ahead. Steve.' [50] -> [51]; LeClai | 2018-09-19
PREV> Jason Benware: Go ahead. Steve.
TEXT> I make a motion to accept what has been presented to us in regards to the audit questionnaire. And I respectfully request that the board chair sign on behalf of the rest of the members of the school board.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Second, that.

[10012-108] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs citizens' comments, agenda and vote | 2018-09-19
PREV> Unidentified: Is.
TEXT> That appropriate that they would. Say, gee, it's important that these kids get to eat and, people can send $100 or something like that that covered. Is that is that appropriate to even.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Well, I mean, we have been approached by organizations about paying paying lunch balances at the end of the year for certain people. So I think certainly that would, you

[10012-112] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Carolyn, you had your hand up'  | 2018-09-19
PREV> Unidentified: Up and you.
TEXT> Haven't spoken. No, you just said it. I figured we could go out to the community because so many even churches like to see the kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Have.

[10012-115] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Jason.' [94] -> [95]; 'Jason, a | 2018-09-19
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Their breakfast in the morning. So, that's one way of cutting some of the costs. But, Jason. Disappointing.
TEXT> I guess the problem that I have with that is, is we had a program that was set up that that was going to cover it. And now what we're talking about is spending money. But but the other elementary schools have plenty of kids who also could use free lunch. Right? So now if we're going to spend money and allocate money to give free lunch to the kids at the bluff out of our own pockets, how do we justify that and not do it at other elementary schools as well? This was a program that was supposed to be a net gain for us. And now now we're looking at, you know, telling the taxpayers essentially, and my kids go to the bluff, but essentially saying, well, the bluff.
NEXT> Unidentified: Kids.

[10012-129] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 ('As Corey said' [129] after her accou | 2018-09-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: chain and challenged the deadline and looked for an opportunity for the federal government to weigh in, to say, yes, we'll give an exception in this. And they denied that. So in terms of I forget who asked how many days of been in school,
TEXT> One. I sat in front of you and said, this is what we'd like to do based on information I had at the time, and I didn't feel comfortable coming back unless I had exhausted all possible options in the meantime and come up with some sort of response to not only why this happened, but what we're going to do about it. I have a hard time telling families who we told at the beginning of the year, you're having universal lunch, that, oh, by the way, now you have to pay for those 14 days. So my request to you would be to have the district at least cover the cost to those families, and now we can inform them our mistake. We need to change the practice. You're now going to be responsible for your child's meal if you're not on, you know, if you don't receive free lunch. But I, I just want to make sure that that gets out because I think that that's important. But we absolutely need to do different business moving forward. Not acceptable even.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I completely follow Corey's sentiment there. We need to basically, we don't have a choice in this matter to cover the first 14 days. But I think realistically, the information

[10012-222] John Magoon | Assistant Principal and special education coordinator, Stevens High Sc | 2018-09-19
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks. Okay. Okay. Yeah.
TEXT> So the reason why I'm here tonight is to speak about the 21st century electronic communication device, cell phone, and that we have going. So according to the National Center for Education Statistics, in 20 1516, the number of students served under Individual Disabilities Disabilities Education Act in the US was 6.7 million.  That that's equal to 13% of all all public school children just at our school alone at the high school, as you as you seen from today, the we have approximately 553 students at Stevens High School about. Well, I'm going to say over 100 of them either receive a 504 plan or an IEP. So what is what is the technology do? It allows independence for our students. It frees them to be able to do from direct instruction so they can go on online, and they can work at their own pace. The kids that are having difficulty, they can go on programs such as Odyssey, Ware and things like that in our building. It, you know, it also helps improve our special ed services, the things that we can provide for our children. So when we take a look at it. What is the 21st century device mean to me as coming from a student with either A in their special ed plan or their 504? So it's a way for me to communicate.
NEXT> John Magoon: So they use these devices to talk to other people they don't have. They may not have a voice or cannot speak to a level that we can understand. So

[10012-223] John Magoon | Assistant Principal and special education coordinator, Stevens High Sc | 2018-09-19
PREV> John Magoon: provide for our children. So when we take a look at it. What is the 21st century device mean to me as coming from a student with either A in their special ed plan or their 504? So it's a way for me to communicate.
TEXT> So they use these devices to talk to other people they don't have. They may not have a voice or cannot speak to a level that we can understand. So these devices are used to help them speak. These devices are on iPads. They're on  their on their iPhones as well. All right. It's a way for them to remember things. They use Google Calendar. We have a class that is specifically designed to teach our students how to prepare for college, how to prepare  for adult life by using their phones and putting their meetings on their phones, or putting their appointments right on their calendars, on their phones, putting their dates, assignments or due. That's all done on their phones. It's a way for them to take notes. We have students that will take pictures of the notes that the teacher writes up on the board. We have students that use their laptops for that. They use their cameras for that. We also have  what's called talk to text. So kids can actually talk, and it does all the typing for them so they don't have to touch the the  keypad at all.
NEXT> John Magoon: This is all again, it can be done on the their iPhone. It can be done on a computer, can be done on their iPad. Sometimes it helps them see

[10012-225] John Magoon | Assistant Principal and special education coordinator, Stevens High Sc | 2018-09-19
PREV> John Magoon: can also bring that home with them, because it's their own personal device. They bring that home with them, and then at night they can listen to the books online. Because we need to remember that reading is not always about being taught to read.
TEXT> It's also listening to other people read expressions when to pause. So that's a big part of reading.  And then  Intel Reader is another program that helps with that. Thanks to technology, our kids that are suffering from anxiety, we have a lot of kids that suffer from anxiety for from home life, from issues that are happening to them. They can listen to music and kind of suits them. Now they're not listening to music. When the teacher is is given instruction. This is something that is done after the instruction and they're working quietly by themselves, getting their work done. Right.  It's also good for kids, kids that no second languages, Google translate. It helps them speak to their friends, to peers to understand what's going on, making the classroom discussion more understandable for them. So here are some other ways that we we use technology. As you can see this list here. The areas that are improved. So we're seeing higher reading scores, higher writing scores. The kids are able to remember things more. So assignments are getting turned in. Listening  math, all those types of things in the middle one just kind of gives you an idea, you know, touch screens,  magnification, magnification, magnifying, magnifying screens.
NEXT> John Magoon: If you say the word sorry, text to speech, those types of programs that we're currently using. In our in our building. So technology can make a huge difference in

[10012-226] John Magoon | Assistant Principal and special education coordinator, Stevens High Sc | 2018-09-19
PREV> John Magoon: scores, higher writing scores. The kids are able to remember things more. So assignments are getting turned in. Listening math, all those types of things in the middle one just kind of gives you an idea, you know, touch screens, magnification, magnification, magnifying, magnifying screens.
TEXT> If you say the word sorry, text to speech, those types of programs that we're currently using. In our in our building. So technology can make a huge difference in the life of a child with with special needs. So if you look so it makes a huge impact on their education. You know, it's not it's not the same for them as it is for other people. So so technology kind of evens the barriers for them, makes it more they come dependent on some of that stuff because they need that in order to be able to survive with certain educational things that we require.  It allows the like I said, it allows them to be equal. But not only does this technology do that. One of the things that I always want to talk about is technology will assist all students. So I know. So what I want to bring it back to is, you know, I give this big spiel about how wonderful technology is for for my special ed students and my 500 for students. It's great for them.  One of the things, though, is these are our most vulnerable students. And so by  by allowing which is which is a good thing because you can see how wonderful this is for the for our kids.
NEXT> John Magoon: But then you also need to think about how this is going to impact their peers, people that are seeing them, allowing them to use these devices, but they can't.

[10012-227] John Magoon | Assistant Principal and special education coordinator, Stevens High Sc | 2018-09-19
PREV> John Magoon: my 500 for students. It's great for them. One of the things, though, is these are our most vulnerable students. And so by by allowing which is which is a good thing because you can see how wonderful this is for the for our kids.
TEXT> But then you also need to think about how this is going to impact their peers, people that are seeing them, allowing them to use these devices, but they can't. So I want you to just think about that as we start to move forward. How how it's such a big educational impact on our students as we move into our 21st century learning our 21st century school. A big part of it talks about technology and how important technology. Sorry, I'm getting attacked by this fly. I swear I did shower this morning, but technology really impacts our students. Thank you. Yes. Any questions?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I think it's super.

[10012-232] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (uncertain - not named at her turns; | 2018-09-19
PREV> John Magoon: That, I think it's super.
TEXT> Important to note that we did add boarding in here to cover students with 500 fours and IEPs. And I also think that it's going to be really important. And I know Claremont is good at this already, but super important moving forward to make sure that when people are writing the IEPs and that 504 is that they include, these tools and strategies that under the accommodations and list them out so that it's very, very clear for everybody. And I don't think any of us would I shouldn't I can't speak for you guys. I would not be in favor of a policy that did not allow for the use of  technology when appropriate with special ed students. And the other thing I wanted to say, I know you talk about, other students seeing your students using technology, I always you're not going to like this. But I always say to my kids, what's fair isn't always equal. So I think it's also a learning experience for others that sometimes things look different and it's okay.
NEXT> John Magoon: You know? Oh, yeah, they use that. I use that phrase a lot. Yeah. Being in the education. So we do use that a lot, especially with teachers. Yeah I

[10012-233] John Magoon | Assistant Principal and special education coordinator, Stevens High Sc | 2018-09-19
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: other students seeing your students using technology, I always you're not going to like this. But I always say to my kids, what's fair isn't always equal. So I think it's also a learning experience for others that sometimes things look different and it's okay.
TEXT> You know? Oh, yeah, they use that. I use that phrase a lot. Yeah. Being in the education. So we do use that a lot, especially with teachers. Yeah I just worry about I mean we're talking about high school students, you know, and that that you and I may instill these values into our students, but not all families do. And so we need to think about that as well. Thank you.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I hear you.

[10012-237] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member ('Go ahead. Steve.' [50] -> [51]; LeClai | 2018-09-19
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. I you know.
TEXT> We've heard about this the last few meetings and we and it's been since the policy approval in the handbook. But I really have a big question. And it's the question is, is that we have a wording to include the 504 and IEP, the key word that we're using in the whole part of this policy is private. That means personal not district wide. We provide emails for every student, every staff member in the district. So sharing from whether it's the school supplied computer to that students personal device, should not really matter if they'll get it when they get home. So I'm just I'm I'm kind of  I'm intrigued by the amount of pushback we're getting on it.  Very intrigued because at the end of the day. We've been following the same policy that was in the handbook from last year to this year. The only thing that we have done is actually write a policy that says it doesn't coincide with just what the handbook say. It's an actual guideline. So it's a district wide. So I don't understand the pushback because we're really going off what's already existed.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: The other thing that really bothers me is the feedback I've gotten, not just from my own student, but other students that happen to be friends with my daughter. And

[10012-251] John Magoon | Assistant Principal and special education coordinator, Stevens High Sc | 2018-09-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: So if I.
TEXT> Can, we have we have said to our teachers that if a student has a phone out, they are not to to take the phone away from it. They are to call somebody from administration so we can come up and have the conversation with the child. So we would never put our staff in that type of predicament where it could end up in a fight, because some of those children, those phones are their life and they will fight to the death for those.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Maybe it.

[10012-253] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (uncertain - not named at her turns; | 2018-09-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: Maybe it.
TEXT> Could be made clear to the students, too, because I think that some have been told that.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: So I.

[10012-261] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 ('As Corey said' [129] after her accou | 2018-09-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: We're going to. Back up to donation to the Arts from the Jack and Dorothy Byrne.
TEXT> Yes. So we received. Want to pull up the explanation for this, so I apologize. We received a donation from the Jack and Dorothy Byrne Foundation. The Byrne Foundation has been very generous to the Claremont School District and different departments or entities within the the Claremont School District for quite some time. And so we received $15,000 for the sugar River Valley Regional Tech Center. And I just want to  pull up. So the funding is to to assist in funding materials and related costs of community engagement projects, for example, building many book exchange libraries, sheds for nonprofit groups for storage, selected residential properties  owned by older citizens that are in need of repair, several lean two or sleeping quarters for Unity Scout Camp. And once that word gets out, the list will grow. So it's, it's, money that will  allow  our students in these programs.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: To then.

[10012-291] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Jason.' [94] -> [95]; 'Jason, a | 2018-09-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: To center a lot.
TEXT> Allows us to teach our kids more community service, which is great.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. Item D Policy Subcommittee j I see a 21st century electronic communication devices cell phone policy second reading.

[10044-19] Unidentified | Student representative, Stevens High School (a senior [284]; not named | 2018-10-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Further discussion. All those in favor? Aye, aye. Opposed? Student representative report. All right. Well. Good evening. Good evening. Pleasure to be here. Package.
TEXT> Okay. So for Stephens High School,  we have. Miss Berry has been bringing in about 20 to 30 books every week.  And they're typically gone within the first 48 hours of them being there, which speaks to a real interest that our students have in reading and owning their own books at home. So we'd just like to encourage anyone who has high school appropriate books that they no longer use to donate them to Stephens and add them to our free book table. Miss Barry and Miss de pre, two school counselors and six teachers will be attending the League of Innovative Schools annual conference tomorrow in Portsmouth.  Last year, Stephens joined this league as a way to share information and resources with schools from our state, as well as from around New England, and to be part of a constitution that  gives feedback and shares ideas on common issues, challenges and initiatives so that all schools can be successful.
NEXT> Unidentified: Stephens is interested in hosting a quarterly meeting sometime this year, and specific things we are looking at at our competency based teaching and learning strategies, writing across the curriculum,

[10044-20] Unidentified | Student representative, Stevens High School (a senior [284]; not named | 2018-10-03
PREV> Unidentified: a way to share information and resources with schools from our state, as well as from around New England, and to be part of a constitution that gives feedback and shares ideas on common issues, challenges and initiatives so that all schools can be successful.
TEXT> Stephens is interested in hosting a quarterly meeting sometime this year, and specific things we are looking at  at our competency based teaching and learning strategies,  writing across the curriculum, and successful high school schedules that support student learning.  The University of New Hampshire will be at Stephens this Friday, October 5th, to oversee the Cami survey.  So an opt out form was passed around to students, but students who chose to opt into the survey  will be able to do so during their flex block on that day, and the information that is gathered will help the district's other initiatives around the community  around community based education, sorry resources and engagement. Mrs. Berry met with Vista Volunteer Coordinator yesterday to get food pantry shelves installed at Stephens. Stephens will then plan events with the soup kitchen and do food drives to  keep the shelves  stock, so that students who are food challenged have the opportunity to help themselves in a secure and private manner.  So for the sugar River Valley Community Technical Center,  the Culinary Arts Department successfully partnered with a local group last Friday night to host a spaghetti sent, spaghetti dinner here at the Tech Center.
NEXT> Unidentified: The culinary program will also be entering the chili contest at the Claremont Fall Festival this upcoming weekend. The plumbing and construction trades class had a great field trip to

[10044-24] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; 'chairpersons editoria | 2018-10-03
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Superintendents report, but I think I'm going to start the superintendent. Please do that. I think I'm going to do that. We have I've got a certificate here. And, if you notice that Mr. Scott Pope is sitting in the audience today, and he was recently recognized for outstanding achievement in, in service to the Claremont School District. And I have to say,  I had the opportunity when I was a principal to observe Mr. Pope and his class. So I've got firsthand experience, in observing  a truly extraordinary teacher,  someone who, goes to the nth degree to make sure that his students are getting what they need to learn. This is a man who will do what we call a ticket to leave, where kids will tell him what I got, what worked for me, what didn't work for me, what I still need. He'll look at that and plan his lessons the next day around individually crafting what those students need to be successful the next day because he asks them what they need to be successful. A truly extraordinary teacher, pivotal in our relationship with Waylon,  being a machinist himself, he has  a career, lifelong career in that he knows that business.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Words cannot describe what an asset Mr. Pope has been to the Claremont School District. And I just want to say that it was my profound pleasure to work with

[10044-28] Scott Pope | Machine tool teacher, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (ho | 2018-10-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: You both? Yes. Please do so.
TEXT> Yeah. This means a lot. And, been teaching in this district. For. 30. One years. And of course, I'm surprised now to just so you know, but, have worked with some fantastic people, Frank being one of them, several great principals, administrators, people in this building, teachers at the high school, people, the tech center. I can say it's always been a team effort. We've helped each other grow and been a pleasure to serve the parents and youth of this community. I don't know what else to say other than thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you. Thank you.

[10044-32] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [57-63]; chair  | 2018-10-03
PREV> Keith Pfeifer: special education personnel are working hard to maintain our compliance with special ed laws, rules and regulations, which is not easy. I very much appreciate their hard work. Our special ed teachers are extremely stressed and we are doing our best to hire more staff.
TEXT> In creatively about ways we can have case managers,  to help us serve the children. Certainly like to acknowledge that our sports teams,  a multiple of which are having an outstanding season. I appreciate their hard work and celebrate Cardinal pride. You know this we in earlier remarks  on the student representative, he talked about the League of Innovative Schools. We're also working this year with the Great Schools Project out of Portland, Maine. Our Great Schools project representative is Ted Hall, former principal at Sahagun High School and member of the board of  NEA SC. I had great pleasure on serving on that board with him, and he always put us in a good place. And I think his knowledge. Across New England of 21st education will we will benefit from that. And then if you're out and about on Saturday, it is the fall festival. And, we will have a booth and come by and say hello. And I know the the center here will have a booth, and you can eat some of their chili  and we'll go from there. But I think another effort, we want to be part of this community.  We want to be visible in this community. And we will keep working at that. I'll be there.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.

[10044-90] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 ('Thanks, Mike' [126], 'Michael' [128] a | 2018-10-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'll pass them down.
TEXT> Okay. In 2015, we changed the tuition rate. There  was a couple of reasons why we changed it. I mean, if you want to. I wrote it up, Doctor Pfeiffer. So if you'd like to read it is no. Right.  The tuition rate was reduced by Claremont School Board in March 2015 to be more in line with the races. Any by districts. Oh, okay. Gotcha.  This reduction was was, what we used to do is we used to charge whatever the deal we 25 said was the total cost per student. If that was about $18,000 at that point. What was happening was that was costing us students from local districts. Because as much as you say, it doesn't matter how much you charge, the districts can steer the children to to a certain school. So the tuition rates for 1415 Claremont was 17849. Fall mountain was 13 to 20, son was 17672, in Newport was 15 for 96. So what Newport did is they lowered theirs by $2,000 for the subsequent year. In 1516, we lowered ours down to 145.  And the 145 was based on the percentage of local revenues,  the cost to educate a child, not the total cost.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: The reason was the incremental revenues will help out over the incremental cost of obviously was not costing us $17,849 to add one student. And what we saw was we

[10044-114] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [57-63]; chair  | 2018-10-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well West unity always came always came to Claremont. Just productivity okay.
TEXT> And I think the high school son you know they they  go out there, they talk to the kids, they try to show them what we have to offer. So I think we have a good, well relationship with the Unity Elementary School.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, Newport does that too because I just I used to go yeah I do that. So Rebecca.

[10044-129] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; 'chairpersons editoria | 2018-10-03
PREV> Michael O'Neill: It's about 12,500.
TEXT> Okay. Let me I mean, I'll just give you an example from from what I know, let's say we have classes that I don't know what our average class size is at Stevens, but it's not 30  that I can guarantee you. So let's say we've got classes that are have an average of 17 or 18 kids. And this is the 18th or the 19th or the 16th kid into each of those classes that they pick. It isn't really costing more to have that student in there. You're not creating new classes for those kids.
NEXT> Jason Benware: They're reducing the cost.

[10044-143] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; 'chairpersons editoria | 2018-10-03
PREV> Carolyn Towle: I just want that in the back of everybody said so.
TEXT> The I think the appeal part one of the appeal of the appeal that Windsor used to have with Cornish kids is that they provide bussing, I believe, for those kids, and that's why they get a lot of the Cornish kids to go to Windsor.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: They had a box man over there.

[10044-173] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 ('Thanks, Mike' [126], 'Michael' [128] a | 2018-10-03
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Zero a year.
TEXT> They can't they can't know anything about due status of the students. That's that's.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: What I heard from Abbey Group when we were looking into hiring. And that's why I'm confused, because he spoke about the fact that she would be helping with that,

[10044-203] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [57-63]; chair  | 2018-10-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay, further discussion. All those in favor? Aye.
TEXT> Opposed donations like that helped educate our students and our young adults. And they are really important to us. We appreciate it.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So much. Appreciate it.

[10044-358] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; 'chairpersons editoria | 2018-10-03
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Thanks man.
TEXT> Next one is an interesting one. One I've been thinking a lot about, food service. Not that we have a significant number of parents who have not paid their bill. We continue to feed the kids because we had to do that by law. But, You know, it does not help our balance in the service program. Mike, do you want to comment?
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Yeah, I'll just just take one of these in passage that I already gave one to our esteemed, little table over there. So she does that, and I'm sure you

[10044-359] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 ('Thanks, Mike' [126], 'Michael' [128] a | 2018-10-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: have a significant number of parents who have not paid their bill. We continue to feed the kids because we had to do that by law. But, You know, it does not help our balance in the service program. Mike, do you want to comment?
TEXT> Yeah, I'll just just take one of these in passage that I already gave one to our esteemed, little table over there. So she does that,  and I'm sure you guys all have this, but this is this is the policy that no tax policy and send that you can have a copy of that. What happened is we, you know, certain laws change which made it so that we could no longer, if the student had no account balance, we couldn't single them out and give them a sun butter sandwich or something different than what the other kids are having. So as part of that rewriting of the process, we came up with a with a. Policy that allowed for the kids to continue to eat, but also allowed for us to try to collect those monies from the people who didn't pay the money. The problem is we we just did the steps in the policy sort of go in small claims court  and wanted to have a discussion with the board about, you know, what direction do we want to take? I mean, you know, I hate to go to a collection agency to try to collections lunch balance, but but if you if you look real quick at the sheet, I just like the landscape sheet.  The total amount for the year ended June 30th, 2018 is 32,040 418. That's okay.  Now obviously that's that's a combination of accounts  different balances, different statuses.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: But but if you look at the the highest balance due in each of the schools and someone was $672.50, which means they ate two meals every single day all

[10044-430] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'So Rebecca.' [164] -> [165] | 2018-10-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: It's nice. Chair.
TEXT> I just wanted to hear your suggestions again. I,  I remember the 20 and then I also wanted to say like, from a parent's point of view, I've been laid a lot. And you do get the letters. I mean, not I haven't been delinquent. I've gotten a low balance notice and then you have to put money on the card. That was one of my questions. Does everybody have to put money on the card for the kid, or are  kids bringing cash as well?
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Is it bringing cash as well? We do daily deposits for.

[10044-547] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; 'chairpersons editoria | 2018-10-03
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I'll bring that.
TEXT> I'll bring the coffee and, and again, we are going to be getting, some materials to work with. Some budget materials. I put in a request for, class sizes at the for all the younger kids. And I've also put in a request for, a conflict matrix. And a conflict matrix is not a conflict matrix. I'm sorry, a saturation study,  right? Is based on power school numbers where you've got X number of kids seating capacity in a room, and you've got a teacher in that room, and you've got a certain number of kids in that room. So then you learn what the capacity of your departments are. You organize it by department. So how many seats are there? How many kids are in the seats? How many teachers are associated with those? With those kids. And you'll get a percentage. And, you don't want to have it up around 90 or 100%, because that probably means you don't have enough teachers. But if you're down around 40 or 50%, you probably have too many teachers. So we'll see what that reveals. We used to generate those all the time. In anticipation of the budget season and staffing.  So we'll have that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Didn't we have that done last year with Doctor Goodwin? And Corey did a really great presentation. So we did get that information. We also have it.

[10044-551] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; 'chairpersons editoria | 2018-10-03
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I guess what I'm saying is just the way the so comparison to like there's a comparison on different things from different years.
TEXT> But all we're really interested in Michelle, is, is what is our current how what is how many students do we have? How many teachers do we have and what departments are at capacity? What departments are under capacity? What departments are overcapacity based on the kids that are sitting in classes right now this year? So that's that's what we're going to be using because that's that's how we determine how our staffing is for 1819.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I mean, I obviously when we went through the last year, we had a really expensive program presentation done about that. So I didn't know. It's kind of like I

[10059-220] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity) (uncertain - not named on this recording; pr | 2018-10-18
PREV> Carolyn Towle: So there is no.
TEXT> Superintendents report  the status update on the superintendent search is that our survey is live on Survey Monkey. So we  are in process of disseminating the information to the public in the hopes that they will go online to fill it out on Survey Monkey. The the positive thing about using Survey Monkey is that the statistics are  are calculated by the site, but we are also making paper copies of to hand out to anybody who would fill those out. We're doing quite a bit of that in unity. I've talked to  Chip Baldwin about sending copies home with  with the children. I've put up posters at the town offices and the library. I still need to hit the store. Bottom line is we're we're disseminating it today, tomorrow, hoping to collect the information by the 1st of November in time for our criteria setting meeting, at which point we hope to  have a start of a job description and  an ad to put in the paper, and we'll move forward from there. But we are planning also planning to have forums, public forums December 1st and the fifth one will be in Claremont at the high school, the other will be in unity at the elementary school, and we will have fliers out to invite the public to all of that as well. And the intent of those is to have both open to anyone from either town.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Yeah. Either one. So one will be on a Saturday, one will be in an on an evening. And unity is welcome to go to Claremont. Claremont folks are welcome

[10093-25] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [37-4 | 2018-11-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: So, student, I don't see a student rep tonight, so bypass that and go to the superintendent's report. Superintendent's report? Oh. I'm sorry. Okay. The fall.
TEXT> Is flying by, I guess. First knowledge the effort of the girls on Sunday night against Hoffman. They played their hearts out, and they came up. And in short.  But, you know, they played with termination. And to get to the state finals is a reward. And to itself, I'm sure they're disappointed, but well done. And I let them know that to the coach. The Budget committee has met twice so far and have a third meeting on  on Friday,  9 to 12 at here.  We are proceeding through the budget program by program and level by level, do the loss of stabilization funds and catastrophic aid will be challenged to produce a level funded budget. But we are proceeding with that in mind for the direction of the port. On Monday, first quarter, parent conferences  were held and had excellent attendance. You know, face to face parent Guardian conferences are essential element to connecting with parents and guardians. We gain a lot of understanding about children's and families through these conferences. So well done to our staff.  One to let you know under Corey's leadership  that we have multiple things we're working on in terms of curriculum.
NEXT> Keith Pfeifer: Certainly development of a comprehensive cycle. So you can see that and we'll provide that to you. Once approved, full invitation of the K through five writing curriculum. We're working

[10093-26] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [37-4 | 2018-11-07
PREV> Keith Pfeifer: to connecting with parents and guardians. We gain a lot of understanding about children's and families through these conferences. So well done to our staff. One to let you know under Corey's leadership that we have multiple things we're working on in terms of curriculum.
TEXT> Certainly development of a comprehensive cycle. So you can see that and we'll provide that to you. Once approved, full invitation of the K through five writing curriculum.  We're working on development and implementation of the writing curriculum in grades five through eight.  Development of a reading curriculum in grades five through eight.  We're restructuring some of the CTE curriculum and continuing of work around embedded credits. We do have two curriculum coordinators, and the team members talk with these other school board sessions that will be here to talk to you about their work.  We have completed a state of New Hampshire DOE special education and last week a title 3SOL. We are awaiting the results. I you know the title 311 particularly well. So we're pleased we have now entered the second semester and continue to focus on student learning and results moving forward.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Sorry. Years gone by fast, right?

[10093-50] Sally Bouchard | Candidate for school board vacancy, executive director of Community De | 2018-11-07
PREV> Sally Bouchard: United States. The goal of the program is, again, to reduce the carries rate in children and how we are devising this plan is that right now, our program in the school systems takes about 40 minutes per child and costs about $70 per child.
TEXT> We think that we can prove over a five year span  that we can reduce that to a $20 per child at 20 minutes per child. So again, it's really about economics, what you have for finances and being able to bring care to kids and serve the most children you can.  We are also in this program because we know that the New Hampshire Medicaid rate  for dental benefits for children is at about $14 billion a year. We think over our five year research program that we can bring that rate down to $4 billion. So New Hampshire Medicaid is very interested in seeing our statistics when we're through with our research program. And that's where we're currently at right now, just doing dental and hoping to  provide more care to kids and access to care.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We've got a few questions that you'd like to ask you. So we're going to going around the room and we'll be asking for candidates for all the candidates, the

[10093-66] Sally Bouchard | Candidate for school board vacancy, executive director of Community De | 2018-11-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm Frank Sprague. What special thing would you bring to our to our group dynamic that we have here at the board?
TEXT> I'd like a district that is responsive to values, beliefs, and priorities for our children and community.  And to work with the district to improve student achievement. I don't think that this position is anything to be taken lightly. We must be willing to listen and to work together, as well as being adept and active problem solvers.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[10093-107] Sultana | Candidate for school board vacancy, Unity parent (self-ID 'My name is  | 2018-11-07
PREV> Sultana: the student. So the question popped in my mind that in the board we can go and make access, especially for the parents, because my son is minor as compared to the high school student. So I have no access to the high school student.
TEXT> But the high school student has access to my six years old for 45 minutes once in a week. So that a little bit bothers me. I mean, it bothered me, but they give me a written information about the student.  And the second thing is, being in this community, I saw many other communities. I mean, I was community living in  Claremont, community from Nepal, community from Pakistan, community from  India. I think I will be a big plus to this board  to make the system easy for them as well as to the school institutions.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[10093-257] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center of Claremont (s | 2018-11-07
PREV> Alex Herzog: and assimilated into the high school. So we do have some open classrooms upstairs. Those need to be cleaned up and revamped, but we're thinking about how we want to grow our programs and what kind of classes do we want to put in there.
TEXT> And that's based on, you know, community need responsive to the workforce as well as what our student interests are. We kind of got to balance those two things. So we get this going. So programs and staff, we have five programs in the building carpentry construction which is headed up by Mr. Michael Bennett, a fantastic young man out of Maine. He was at a charter school there  almost as a finishing his bachelor's degree right now. But as a world of knowledge in regards to carpentry  has done  cabinets and such. So it was a really good hire for us for our HVAC plumber. We have Arnold Craig, who is a graduate of our program about ten years ago. So he's been around a little bit. He really connects well with our students, has worked for Hinckley in the past and just brings a real good expertise. For machine tool, we have Mr. Scott Pope and you know, Mr. Pope, he's a real expert in his field for culinary. We hired a canoe. She worked for Santos as assistant, and then that position was eliminated. So when this position came open, she applied again. And she really had the most education experience of all our candidates. And then Mr. Jim Galla is our accounting teacher. And one of the things we have on our CTE accounting, he also does a lot of personal finance classes, which are quarter classes.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: And those are all our intro classes to accounting. That's where students get excited about maybe studying accounting. Just quickly, I want to show you a little bit about our

[10093-315] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center of Claremont (s | 2018-11-07
PREV> Michelle Pierce: stores for them, driving for them. And then so the other thing was, are are you also looking at the middle school kiddos and seeing how maybe, I guess, that they could be incorporated in some of the things, especially, I think when we start.
TEXT> Looking at middle school and elementary. So when my students, we have already the carpentry construction guys went over to Maple Ave because they needed it. They needed some. Busch covers, whatever you call those. And so they built them here. They took them over there. We've got great pictures of them, those kinds of things where they needed a they have a food shelf there and they needed a shelf. So we built it, our students built it. And that's the kind of things we're trying to do. The grant that got funded from the foundation, that's where we're going to tap those monies to use those kinds of activities. So our students get experience. In there. So I did a presentation every Friday and Monday morning. They do an assembly at the middle school. And I was there when Friday morning, and we did a whole bunch of activities with the kids, more of a presentation, but just exposed the CTE,  what we're doing. I've got a plan to speak on November 19th to the ninth and 10th graders, because they're the next students that are going to be going in line. So we're bringing all our staff over during our flex time, and we're going to be making that presentation awesome.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: It's amazing, a great job.

[10093-321] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center of Claremont (s | 2018-11-07
PREV> Alex Herzog: So when I look at what we've done so far, we've been here. Let's see, I started in June, 4th June, July, August, September, October. So five months time. I've hired three excellent staff. We're building a strong team of educators. They're helping each other.
TEXT> Sometimes I'll walk down and when one has a free block, they'll go talk to the other one about how do I do this again? Or can you help me with this? And they all come with different skill sets. So it's amazing to watch that team happen. And it's my job to either guide that to happen or to empower it to happen. And that's what I've been doing every day working with US staff. We've been able to raise outside funds. Our culinary catering is happening. We don't really have the student population in there yet to open for lunch. I'd love to see that someday, but right now I think we can do any catering and we're getting some good requests for catering, which is nice. So our students are getting some experiences there. The building trade projects we do right now, we're building a shed.  Students are doing smaller projects. We have a dog house that was built. They are making me a new podium because I said, we need podiums that have the tech on it, so we're working on that. Projects like that that we could reinvest in our own school and kind of create that pride.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We had Mr. Pope's teacher award this year. I saw that come up. I immediately nominated he did all the work over 30 years, but I think it was an

[10093-334] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'I'm Carolyn Toll' [78], 'I'm C | 2018-11-07
PREV> Alex Herzog: is to offer a Women in Power Tools class so that they're going to understand how to use power tools safely and feel confident when they leave, how to use them. So those are the things we're looking at. If it's 1 or 2 night.
TEXT> The other thing I just as a marketing thing, and the second part was, you know, I love the idea of you going to the elementary classes and everything and, and exposing the elements, the kids that are working here to those classrooms and doing different projects because it gets them thinking.  Sure. But I would also like to just have you think about the fact that  a lot of those kids will never come through this building. Maybe. So maybe you would have a situation where a classroom came to this building and saw what was going on inside here. I don't know if.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: You've.

[10093-336] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center of Claremont (s | 2018-11-07
PREV> Cory LeClair: You've.
TEXT> So you can join us next end of the month or maybe early December. The preschool will be walking to all the classrooms and we're going to do a little career day. So I think what we're sometimes it's logistics and bussing and taking them out of the classroom to do that takes away from their learning. And we also know that they need to be learning all that. If we can take an instructor that's on a free block and go over and do a little demonstration, and for us, it's just using the basic, I want to call it a Bunsen burner, but whatever that burner is that they use to, to to weld the pipes together, you know, and just clicking and it makes a fire. The kids are like, oh, those kinds of things so that they see and it's safe. It's a good, safe environment. We talk about safety all the time if they're going to do these things at home. But yes, I agree.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Good.

[10093-375] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Herzog: 'Corey, can you' [336] -> [33 | 2018-11-07
PREV> Jason Benware: One, one. Got two more.
TEXT> Sally, would you like one to look out? Yeah, sure. I can speak to some of the bigger picture things, and Ben can speak to more of the details and special ed related, specifics. As you know, last summer we pursued an opportunity with a regional provider to essentially create an out of district placement in district. So we were looking at  taking two elementary classrooms,  creating a smaller environment, therapeutic environment to support the needs of some of our students. And that fell through when the cost structures that we originally presented shifted dramatically. When it was time to sign on the dotted line. As you also know, we spend the fair amount of money, significant amount of money on students who we send to different programs around the region and the cross the state because their needs are such that they need more specialized training and support. And so we have. A big problem in terms of the financial side of things and can take some incremental steps to potentially improve the outcomes for our students, keep them in our own community, and ultimately, over time, reduce our expenditures on out of district placements and sending kids out. So this is a draft in all caps because this is really looking at a year one.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: What can we do for next year? And a lot more research needs to be done and more players need to come to the table to look beyond next year.

[10093-383] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Herzog: 'Corey, can you' [336] -> [33 | 2018-11-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Medical.
TEXT> Medical fragility or other disabilities or not creating a Perkins School of the blind in district. We're really looking at our students with emotional and behavioral needs and mental health needs that need those supports.  And we're looking at the elementary level. And so the the first go would be for supporting our elementary students and looking potentially having two classrooms. And the profile that each of those two classrooms would support would be different. So it would be a level two and a level three, meaning that one  classroom would have  students with more severe needs than the other classrooms. So there's a progression  there. And all of these environments, these two classrooms are really therapeutic environments first, academic environments second, which was what Frank was speaking to,  is that our first goal is to help the students stabilize and then be able to learn. So I didn't mean to cut you off those of you with your hands up, but I was realizing that we're talking about this because we've talked about it before, but I don't know that everybody had the same good point context.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Jason and.

[10093-387] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Jason and Michelle want to make | 2018-11-07
PREV> Ben: dynamic you have with these six kids over here. So it's hard to completely nail down, like, yeah, we could scale up two per year and get at ten eventually per classroom. I think it might depend on who walks through the door. Is that.
TEXT> Yes. I'm just I'm simply trying to, you know, from the person who's looking at this from home. Yeah. And they see and they're looking at, a cost  over the first year of about $125,000. If I were sitting at home, I would also go, okay, that's great, but  what are we going to look at? Where it's going to actually start saving us money as a district? Right. And you know, what year might that be at? And these are just projections I understand. But I think that quality of life for the kids very important. Yeah. Savings for the community also a major bonus. So that's all I'm just trying to figure out where we're headed.
NEXT> Ben: I gotcha.

[10093-391] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Herzog: 'Corey, can you' [336] -> [33 | 2018-11-07
PREV> Ben: So the Jason.
TEXT> There are a couple of positions that you could add multiple more classrooms and not have to change. You don't need to add a new administrator every time you add a new classroom. So those are sort of initial costs that as you scale up you're not going to have to replicate and duplicate. And that's when you're going to start to see more of the savings. Same with the social worker. The social worker, you might be able to have yet another classroom have three classrooms where the students working with a social worker before you have to add a second one. So again, it's it's difficult to say exactly which kids could come back or exactly how many could come back, because a lot of things can change. But we also know that we put roughly three students out every  year or more because of their needs. And at roughly $90,000 per student per placement just for the tuition pieces of it, $270,000 for three students every year. The cost of running the program doesn't necessarily increase $270,000 every year. So I think you you're looking at a savings potentially within 2 to 2 years, three years. Now you're looking at saving significant dollars for the district and our students. All of our students are having a potential better experience because  they're not sitting on a  in a minivan for an hour and a half every day,  traveling to and from a foreign location there. They're here.
NEXT> Ben: Yeah. It's like a 45 minute drive on average to our placement. Sometimes we're looking at an hour plus for a lot of these, and that's two hours added on

[10093-398] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'I'm Mike patron' [153]; chair: | 2018-11-07
PREV> Mary Woodman: Okay.
TEXT> Just I guess point two is that some of the if we're looking at dollars and cents, some of the savings that we're going to see is you don't see it up front, because what you're doing is also preventing kids from being tuition out. So, you know, some of these kids that are being in this program aren't tuition out yet, but may be headed that direction. And if we can prevent that at $90,000 roughly per kid, that's not necessarily the savings you're seeing on paper because you're not incurring that cost yet, but it's preventing that cost in the future. And I think another thing, part of where the direction may be in the future of this program would be also the ability to possibly tuition any students. So taking students from local areas to help, you know, Newport or anywhere locally to  tuition kids in and that being a revenue source as well.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we're going to have to be very specific with the profile of student in each of these rooms so that the room dynamic can be successful. I heard it

[10093-399] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Herzog: 'Corey, can you' [336] -> [33 | 2018-11-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: direction may be in the future of this program would be also the ability to possibly tuition any students. So taking students from local areas to help, you know, Newport or anywhere locally to tuition kids in and that being a revenue source as well.
TEXT> So we're going to have to be very specific with the profile of student in each of these rooms so that the room dynamic can be successful. I heard it from you all earlier today about how your dynamic as a board is now. And if you if everyone thinks about a year ago what the board dynamic was, it was very different. Couple different faces at the table. It can change things dramatically. And so that's the same thing with any population, including our students. And so we we  need to be specific with that profile. And it might not mean that we have six students September 4th or fifth, whatever that first day is enrolled in this program because we might not have six kids. With the right profile for here, it might be three to start, and then you build from there. And people need to understand that on the front side  so that we're not all getting the questions in November. Why are there only four kids in this program or, you know, because they have to be the right mix of kids for all of those kids to be successful.
NEXT> Keith Pfeifer: And you also have to consider it vis a vis what the cost for out of district placement is. If they're not with us, we can do it here. All

[10093-402] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'My name is Michelle Pierce' [7 | 2018-11-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> So I guess this kind of goes back to with the, you know, the tech center here also is that, you know, it would be interesting to maybe get the text center,  you know,  programs involved, maybe in finding a when a place is found or when we get to that point and have those guys be a part of that construction and, and the overall, however, the sensory room here was just a dynamic thing that's been helping out a lot. I've heard so many really cool things about it that you know it. I guess it's important to know that, you know, if we could get that, make sure that each one of those classrooms had that sensory section or the the, you know, the get up and leave and,  and, A a. And having the ot, the pt the speech therapist and things like that, that could actually be here, coming here all in one place, not being shifted at a different place. I mean, my goal has always been to see the kids come back home to to our community. That is our kids. It's our responsibility  as, as human beings to make sure that all of the children get an education that's fair and right. And I think that this is awesome. I, I just want to make sure that we, we have  that folks understand rate now what the cost is and what it could be with placement back here.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think I think it's all of our jobs. I think when we, when we're asked in the community, because I think at least, we've heard it a couple of

[10093-460] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'My name is Michelle Pierce' [7 | 2018-11-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thanks for saying that, Michelle.
TEXT> And  the belt on that. Also that thank you to our community and to all of the folks here that worked so hard to make sure our kids are taken care of. It just shows the community togetherness.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yep. Thank you.

[10093-496] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Herzog: 'Corey, can you' [336] -> [33 | 2018-11-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: So so let's.
TEXT> Just to add,  one of the. Items for that agenda would be for the governing bodies to ask representatives and senators  to submit legislation on the behalf of the governing bodies. So that was one of the intense of the meeting. But I don't know if that couldn't be accomplished in another. I'm just.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm just thinking with all the new faces.

[10095-115] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Michelle.' [161] -> [162]; LeCl | 2018-10-30
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Ask something.
TEXT> About,  do you have a defined between the staff that oh still and the children?
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Or like I said, I haven't really updated that. So I need to, to, to update that for the payments that have been made. I'm only looking at this year

[10095-130] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (chair's recognition 'Jason.' absorbed a | 2018-10-30
PREV> Michael O'Neill: So it all did start when we adopted a new policy that said that you can't differentiate between what children are eating, because previous to this we used to give them a different alternative lunch, but we can't do that anymore. Under the lunch program.
TEXT> Jason. So for clarification, I guess one of the things is, is simply that if a kid comes to school and doesn't have food and they ask for food, you have to feed them. Yeah. So if a kid were to show up every day for a year with no food, you have to feed them. Yeah, that doesn't take long to add up. So if, if, if you send your kid to school and you don't give them food and they want lunch, you have to give them the exact hot lunch that any other kid would get. I did some math just trying to figure out how much that works out to. If you were going to spend, if you were going to pay for every kid to lunch throughout the year, and I was somewhere around close to a million bucks, I think  is what it would be if you paid for every kid throughout a year. So when you think of it in those terms, to get to $32,000 probably doesn't take that long. That's part of it.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So meals are $3, I believe, a day for students. And as you mentioned, that the federal law change that we are required to give the same meal to every

[10095-131] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Benware: 'what Corey just outlined is | 2018-10-30
PREV> Jason Benware: somewhere around close to a million bucks, I think is what it would be if you paid for every kid throughout a year. So when you think of it in those terms, to get to $32,000 probably doesn't take that long. That's part of it.
TEXT> So meals are $3, I believe, a day for students.  And as you mentioned, that the federal law change that we are required to give the same meal to every child,  if they show up with  a lunch. And we've made different  efforts to recuperate that money and inform parents of balances to include  letters home.  We have an app available for parents to access that information. We've made phone calls to families who are in debt. We've made multiple attempts to reach out to the community to ensure that families, if they're eligible, are receiving free and reduced lunch and filling out that paperwork.  Families who receive any other sort of state assessment assistance automatically qualify for free and reduced lunch.  So there's been many attempts to, not only prevent additional debt from occurring, but to recuperate some of the debt that has already occurred. So we we have landed here with $32,000 and we have a plan for moving forward.  I think one of the other differences that we've been able to see is that we instituted a point of sale system. So our record keeping is much more accurate now than it had historically been. And we're able to know when,  we have student debts and what those are and be able to track them specifically.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So can we talk about some strategies that we're going to put in place and and work on moving forward?

[10095-142] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Michelle.' [161] -> [162]; LeCl | 2018-10-30
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: All the cart goodies. Goodies, goodies.
TEXT> Yeah. So but I think somewhere in the context of all of this and doing going forward, we, we had originally said no one could go off the all the cart and I thought it was without any money in their account. They couldn't use the all the cart somehow that would, you know, stop it. So any, any staff or any parents, they're allowing their kids to use all the cart and not getting the regular meal like everybody else supposed to. That's I think is a big. And it's not just the parents at home that aren't paying for their kids. It's, you know, unfortunately, it's our staff too. So this isn't just about it's about fixing it all the way across. And I think talking to the to the folks about  all the cart and what we can do to either define that or change it. Okay.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So moving forward, we had a policy that was put in place in 17 with the change in the federal law and the and the shift to a food service

[10095-152] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'So, Rebecca.' [184] -> [185 | 2018-10-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: and collating that information. And I think that that's going to be a valuable piece of of being proactive. If we know what's going on, it's going to give us the tools to to be proactive in addressing it in future years. To. So, Rebecca.
TEXT> So I just wanted to clarify one more thing. And Jason,  just mentioned it, but I'm going to mention it again. You see a lot of things online about feed the kids, feed the children, just feed the kids. So I think it's really important that this is what Jason just said. I'm going to say it a different way. All children in this district are being fed, and they're being fed exactly the same meals as every other child who gets a hot lunch. So there's no child who is not being fed whether they have money or not. And that's the law. So if people are still in a panic about children not being fed, they need to just know they are all being fed, right?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Correct.

[10095-159] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Benware: 'what Corey just outlined is | 2018-10-30
PREV> Deborah Chase: in the contract that. So if somebody went to Liberal beef and said, hey, can you supply our meat for the contractor or for can we get like a 10%? Does the contractor work on anything like that to work in the community? They do.
TEXT> Yeah. The the contractor that we are currently using,  I think not to speak on behalf of the board, but one of the things that the board expressed favorably about that particular contractor was that they do source local products.  And, and spend a lot of time in this  area, region purchasing their products. And so the way our contract is established, the  Abbey Group is responsible for sourcing all of their products. The school district doesn't go and purchase products.  But those procurements, that's called procurement. And all of that is very heavily regulated by the US Department of Agriculture.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So that's already happening through the Abbey Group. I think you're talking about the new hire, contracted position. So that new hire wouldn't be doing that. The Abbey Group already

[10095-171] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'So, Rebecca.' [184] -> [185 | 2018-10-30
PREV> Cory LeClair: Yeah.
TEXT> There's the kids didn't.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Want there are some pretty strict USDA guidelines that direct what we can and cannot do with the on in products.

[10095-183] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Michelle.' [161] -> [162]; LeCl | 2018-10-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: Right. There might be red apples. Green apples of banana. You can take what you'd like.
TEXT> Right of that meal. However, once you get past there, there's this thing called an a la carte, and that has the ice cream and the goodies and the  of whatever is, you know, and that's where the kids tend to go get, you know, different things that are more expensive. I don't even know how much. Ice cream is like 2 or $3 for just a ice cream sandwich.
NEXT> Deborah Chase: Do you know anything about the cart that, I'm being told about that that's, you know, up for grabs as you walk in there. Like, if the child doesn't want

[10095-185] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Michelle.' [161] -> [162]; LeCl | 2018-10-30
PREV> Deborah Chase: child doesn't want something that they get on their tray from their meal, if they don't want it, they put it on this cart. And so that somebody that doesn't have enough to eat at lunch or whatever, they can take something off that car.
TEXT> I don't. Allowed to do that now. And that's that's state.  Regulated. I believe in government through the, USDA. When we went through our. And I think everybody has to remember, too, that this is a brand new after 20 years of having the same accounting system, we went to a brand new everything. We increased having salad bars for the kids and then schools. Better food, better quality made food. Not that it wasn't before. That's not what I'm saying. However, all the bugs in the systems haven't been worked out yet, and I have a feeling that will shake out a little bit better is, you know, it's just we're learning as you go, I guess.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Did you have any more questions?

[10095-201] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Benware: 'what Corey just outlined is | 2018-10-30
PREV> Deborah Chase: Not everybody has a computer either, and it's hard to do if you just have a smartphone, but so that might be one of the.
TEXT> There is an app for K-12 payment center so that you can do on your smartphone. That's a lot easier than going to the website on your smartphone.  And so if I, if folks just Google K12 payment center, that's the third party software that's used to be able to make online payments for your student and to monitor their lunch payment, and you can at the bottom of the website, there's a  place where you can see the app, whether you're on a Google platform or an Apple platform, and you can download the app, and then you can get, if you have multiple students or multiple accounts, all of them can show up on the app. You can see exactly what the last week's worth of lunches were and purchases were, and what your balance is, and all of that right on the app. And it's a lot easier to use on, on a device.
NEXT> Deborah Chase: I heard that.

[10095-205] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (Zullo: 'Does that help at all Mike' [83 | 2018-10-30
PREV> Cory LeClair: So.
TEXT> I think we graciously will accept, you know, we're looking at donations and taking those donations,  to I just we need to keep in mind these kids are being fed. They're getting their meals. I mean, we need to make sure that bills are being paid  by parents, by employees who get lunch, you know, and that the kids aren't spending maybe stopping at Cumberland Farms and spending the cash there instead of bringing it to the school. So we need to work out these problems.  And I'm going to plug that. There is also a backpack program that I've heard about, and I believe it's run through the Trinity Church. That could definitely use some help and support. If people are looking to make donations to help kids eat that, they do backpacks for kids for the weekend. Send them home with food so they have so they're fed and have food during the weekend. So I know that they could. Also, we appreciate the donations and we would love to have them. But there's also other places that would really benefit if people want to donate.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you, Mike, for putting that in. Carolyn.

[10095-212] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - not named on this recording | 2018-10-30
PREV> Deborah Chase: the community about, bringing. Sorry, I'm trying to write this. Bringing kids back, from being outsourced with children with disabilities and cognitive, and is it true that we're talking about bringing them back? Or am I opening up something that's not to the public yet?
TEXT> We are aggressively talking and cooperating with the city of Claremont on looking at providing perhaps and programs right here in Claremont  with their support and help.  We would like to educate our students in a the least restrictive environment, and hopefully that's here  if we can, and we are aggressively looking at that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: It's been a hot topic for a while.

[10139-14] Jesse | Student representative to the board (chair: 'Mr. Jesse for all of us t | 2018-12-05
PREV> Jesse: by local law enforcement and for drug sniffing canines who swept all four floors. After students and staff placed their bags, backpacks and coats out into the hallways. We are happy and proud to say that no drugs or paraphernalia were found in our school.
TEXT> This event was followed the next day by an all school assembly, where our students were given  demonstrations by Sergeant Patron and his K-9 officer Maverick,  showing students how the dogs worked  and how they are trained as well.  And so following these two  items, I'm going to go over  dates for performances in our  school district over the holiday season. So I'll wait a minute. Sorry. There's another item on Saturday, December 15th. S s is hosting its second annual craft fair  from 9:00 to 3:00 in the gymnasium. We have over 50 vendors this year, along with,  $5 pictures with Santa,  a silent raffle, and concessions. All proceeds from this will go to the Washington, D.C. trip and the sophomore class as well. Please come out and support this great event. We'd love to have you. You're sure to get the most of your holiday shopping all done in one place, which is very convenient.  Tomorrow we're hosting an all school assembly from  Value Up, which is a  multi presentation that focuses on respect and diversity and tackles the root issues behind substance abuse, bullying and poor academic engagement.
NEXT> Jesse: The presentation is going to be very interactive, and it's going to leave students motivated and with a healthier view of themselves and others. Tomorrow night at 7:00 pm, the

[10139-29] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report af | 2018-12-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Chief?
TEXT> Probably the other challenging  part of my job, which is absolutely no, no wind is weather. But we have had some problems on surrounding hills. We are  buying chains for the busses that travel those routes. Just so you understand our protocol, my day starts at 4 a.m.. I called the police dispatch under DPW supervisor to try to understand the conditions of the road. I also call Mr.  Baldwin from unity, and one of us calls the road agent. I talked to neighboring superintendents, particularly Newport, since our students traveled to the tech center in Newport.  If the situation warrants with an electrical outage, I call the Eversource hotline to determine the potential duration of the allergy and the roads that may be acted by down trees or wires. If we are delaying our counseling counseling, I call Corey, and then we send out the robocall and email. I also call Claremont  for the schools. We have a vendor that cleans our parking lots and I talked to him. I talked to Steve Holt. And I have been doing this for many years and it is not exact, an exact science. We do do the best, you know. I also call AccuWeather. No charge to you because I know. Yeah.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Hey, could you just tell? Please tell people who Steve Holt is.

[10139-43] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report af | 2018-12-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Yeah. So and I appreciate all of that. Sure. It's the position that's very hard to be. I just want to thank you also.
TEXT> But I  take all calls. I try to listen to what they think the problem for their children or the smells are, you know, and I always try to take that into account, you know, but I'm talking, you know, almost 1800 kids plus staff. You know, I'm also concerned we have people from away that do travel to us, and I want to make sure their  travel is safe as well as I can, you know, so a lot of things go into it. Thank DPW and the police again for  their input.  You know, without them it wouldn't be as successful.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I just like to say thank you very much. You've been a wonderful help to this time. We're going through this transition and Merry Christmas.

[10139-49] Maggie May | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identifies 'Hello, I'm Maggie May. I'm  | 2018-12-05
PREV> Klein: Thank you.
TEXT> Hello, I'm Maggie May. I'm part of Ward three. I'm coming to you as a parent, as a musician, and as a Claremont taxpayer for 43 years. I'm here because I think Claremont schools could be agents for change in one particular area of the student education, and that is music and arts that  we know historically that when cuts are made to the budget, invariably music and arts are two of the first things that are affected by the same token. Studies have shown that the benefits of music  increase the brain's thinking capacities and boost the IQ of children. I've printed some material that I'm going to leave with you, some research material to support this, and we also have some research that shows that it boosts the self-esteem and teaches discipline. We know that there are many Claremont children who do not reach their academic or social potential, social skills, potential, and it's partly because they do not have an outlet to express themselves outside of the classroom.
NEXT> Maggie May: I think that by stronger support of the music education in Claremont, we might help these children reach their potential. We have wonderful athletic opportunities for Claremont youth who are

[10139-50] Maggie May |  | 2018-12-05
PREV> Maggie May: that it boosts the self-esteem and teaches discipline. We know that there are many Claremont children who do not reach their academic or social potential, social skills, potential, and it's partly because they do not have an outlet to express themselves outside of the classroom.
TEXT> I think that by stronger support of the music education in Claremont, we might help these children reach their potential. We have wonderful athletic opportunities for Claremont youth who are sports oriented, but we lack opportunities due to budget constraints. For those who may be music or art oriented, I ask you to please consider the positive effects of spending more time or more  on the line item, area of the budget, and let the Claremont School system perhaps become a role model for other school districts. On how music education makes a difference in student growth. Thank you for your time.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, thank you for having us.

[10139-299] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents donations, the federal-fundi | 2018-12-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Oh okay okay okay.
TEXT> So yes, I did put emphasis on the fact that the state law says we have to have our students at all. Students must attend an approved public  school and approved private school, or an approved home school program.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: As opposed to accredited.

[10139-313] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents donations, the federal-fundi | 2018-12-05
PREV> Cory LeClair: an obligation potentially, if families chose to or wanted to, to then financially accommodate their ability to access another public school in a neighboring community. I tried every which way to figure out how to get around this. Haven't figured it out. So here's your.
TEXT> Free and appropriate public education. Do children with disabilities who attend a charter school? Because one of the things that we're talking about is, what about charter schools? Do we get away from any of these?  We'll call them mandates for now. We'll change our verbiage about that in a moment. But do we get away from any of these if we're a charter school or a private school or this school or that school? So even students who are attending a  a charter school who aren't receiving some federal funds, there's still the obligation to ensure the availability of a free and appropriate public education for all children, including disabled children, in the state. Mandatory age ranges. So regardless  of funding sources, there's still an obligation to provide these services. So then we talk about mandates and inducements. Inducements is a new word for me. It means incentives. And. We talk a lot about mandates and unfunded mandates. And the federal government actually tells you that there are no such thing as mandates  because because states choose to take the federal money. And so therefore, it's not a mandate because the states are choosing to take that money. And I scroll through a document that was about an Excel spreadsheet, about 5000 lines, and checked every state in seven, additional territories of the United States government.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And not a single state nor territory refuses all of the federal funding. So every state in every one of the cemetery territories accepts federal funding for education. For the

[10139-338] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (opens the meeting [0-3], runs agenda, re | 2018-12-05
PREV> Jason Benware: I'm just saying that obviously it's a it's a what if. But I don't think so.
TEXT> I'm going to lend a little bit of context to to this overall conversation, just from, from my perspective in that as we as we look at the, the cutbacks and special ed aid, we look at the cutbacks on stabilization aid,  as part of the budget committee, really starting to look at things that are what do we have to do and what are things that are optional. Right.  And part of that conversation, Corey hinted at, around an accredited school and an approved school. And so these are the these are some of the conversations that we've had this year during the budget process. And we'll continue, I think as we look into some of these things,  that are out there that are really optional and as a, as a board rather than a committee deciding what's going to be, what are we going to do, become greater board conversations, so that we can have good conversations and productive conversations about what's out there that we don't have to do and what what are the impact, what's the impact  on the kids in the schools? If if we don't do that, if it's optional. So, this is the beginning of a conversation. There's I guarantee you there will be more. So other comments.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I just have one.

[10139-375] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (chair: 'Mr.. Ben,  | 2018-12-05
PREV> Jason Benware: at our retreat, we set a goal. The goal was to have a budget that was a level funded budget of the same of last year, with the addition of 50% of the fixed cost increases and any loss of revenue that that came about.
TEXT> We were able to get our budget to that point.  So what we would like is for the board to take these home, look through them and digest them, come up with any questions or comments or concerns you have, and we'd like to come back to the next meeting and discuss this in detail.  I would like everybody to know that we put a lot of work into this. We tried to look and do the best that we could for our students and still have our community and our taxpayers in mind in the same time. So, I think if you take a look at it, you'll I think you'll be impressed with what we've come up with. I hope.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Can I just speak to what's in the blue jacket?

[10139-428] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [179, 292, 541, 5 | 2018-12-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: With some general information at this point in time, we're trying to avoid that.
TEXT> So I think that's great that you were able to explain that just now, because, you know, I feel like as a board member, I'm in the dark. And maybe now that you've said it and explain it like that, that maybe even the community might understand a little better. Yeah. You know, I, I really  have honestly felt almost left out of the process. Seriously.  And  I'm not trying to be rude. However, it's like the vote earlier today. I'd like to explain to you guys that I felt that we we could benefit from having both sides of the coin so that so that in case we had a fall back, we had a safety net for the for the food vending. And I understand the, the I understand because I've had to go to the soup kitchen just last week to get food. So I understand the importance of the pantries. A lot of times I feed the kids in my neighborhood,  but my problem with this is, is that I feel like it's great that our budget is looking so much better, and it's going to be coming out  a lot more professionally done.  Absolutely. It's amazing. However, there's been no conversations that have said so. This is our update this week that I feel like really made sense to me. And then it.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I just I'm, I'm not understanding a few things about this year's budget. So in order to understand I might have to ask these questions.

[10161-22] Jesse | Student representative to the board, filling in for Prescott (chair: ' | 2018-12-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: Opposed? Student reps. Report. Jesse.
TEXT> Good evening. I'm filling in for Prescott this evening. He had another commitment pop up, and I'd just like to apologize for, like, the the brevity of the report. I didn't get too much feedback this week, but,  I did want to get these points out anyway.  So Bluff Elementary School PTO  held the holiday activity night this past Friday evening. Students participated in making crafts, socializing with their friends, and dancing to  music. Last night? Well, yeah. So last night, December 18th, Bluff Elementary School held their holiday band and chorus concert. And on Thursday, December 20th, Bluff Elementary School students will be attending the children's concert at Stephens High School. Students. I should add that students from other elementary schools,  I believe all of the ones in the town will be attending tomorrow as well. And I'll be participating in  the performance side of that. I didn't get a report from Miss Berry at the high school, but last Saturday we did Whole Day Craft fair, which I believe went off to some  success. And we also had for performances of humbug, a 50s Christmas carol that I was also involved in.  To honor  the late  Linda, former English and humanities teacher at Stephens. So we just hope that our performance is there. You know,  we're did well in honoring our memory as well. That's it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Makes me sad to think of Linda. Thank you. Jesse. Superintendents report very kind of brief in terms of just letting a few things. You know, we obviously are presenting

[10161-97] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [0], runs age | 2018-12-19
PREV> Michelle Pierce: starting to windle down. Okay. So being I guess active instead of reactive is where I like to see us. And I feel like as a team, we've worked really hard to try to be active instead of reactive. Now it's been a big difference.
TEXT> Doctor Pfeifer, did you have something? I just wanted to mention that a  second letter.  We sent one out in September, I followed. We followed up this week with these help and  Melissa's help, and we sent a second letter  to parents to remind him of their responsibility.  Relative to paying for their children's food service. I think we have we have. There's a actually, the next agenda item is about the, the this. So I think  right now we're talking about the acceptance of donations. So let's keep it to that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Well isn't it where they're going.

[10161-104] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Go ahead. Michelle.' [81],  | 2018-12-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well, I think.
TEXT> What I'm trying to say, what I'm trying to say, is not that I wanted to ever be a burden on the taxpayers, but gosh forbid a family might have a crisis, their house might burn down and they can't afford their food bill.  Gosh forbid that somebody should get in an accident. And we. I'm just thinking about all of us, not only just the taxpayers. I'm thinking about the children and their families. I'm thinking about the taxpayers also.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Can I just stop you? We had a we had a first. We had a second. Then I say, is there further discussion? And so that's we need to wait

[10161-204] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Petrin: 'As Corey said' [725]; 'Thank | 2018-12-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: they are not. And and that's the bulk of it, including some staff. So, I'm not going to go specifically into the details of what the debt looks like at each of the schools. But, we have now sent out a couple rounds of letters.
TEXT> The first two rounds of letters were distributed at the school level. And I believe if I'm understanding correctly, if there was an active email account on file for families, they were emailed to families. And if there wasn't an active email account on file for families, they were sent by US Postal Service to families.  At the beginning of this week, we took the list from Friday the 14th and generated letters for every single one of those students, excuse me, and mailed them using the US Postal Service with a physical copy of the letter to the families. We included in there a  application for free and reduced lunch. If that's something they're interested in contact information. And so we wanted to ensure that everybody who did have debt knew that they had debt, because that was a question mark. And we did discover that there were at least several families who had no idea that they had debt,  or that their student had been purchasing lunch. I was at the middle school yesterday, and I noticed a student who had a hot lunch in front of them, and in front of their hot lunch, they had clearly a lunch from home, and I asked the student why they had two lunches, and they said that they get really hungry. And I asked, do your parents know that you have a hot lunch? And they sort of just shrugged and shook their head? No.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Was that my kid?

[10161-212] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Petrin: 'As Corey said' [725]; 'Thank | 2018-12-19
PREV> Jason Benware: And it's 10% of the people.
TEXT> Yep. And so,  some of the staff on the list are folks that no longer work for us. And they were they have debt that has carried over from last year and it was never collected from them. So I'll be contacting those folks and asking them to pay off their debt as well. Okay. I think also I had a conversation today with,  the account manager from the Abbey Group, just with my observations of what lunch service looked like and one of the facilities, because I was able to experience that this week. And I strongly encourage families, if they are paying for their children's lunch, to either use the online feature and pay with a credit card, or send in a check. I think I. I think that's just a,  a  easier way to track what you've paid and to and to make sure that it's accounted for accurately instead of sending in cash.  I think another thing that I'd like to bring up is that right now  we are allowing students who have debt to still purchase a cart items. And I don't believe we should allow students with any amount of debt to purchase any items, because we have students who are on free and reduced lunch, who are crewing debt with the cart items because they're not part of or no. Or are they included in their free or reduced lunch amount? And so those families can't,  They they can't pay for that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: We were going to do something with that with the policy committee. I can't remember though.

[10161-275] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Mike. And then Rob.' [315]  | 2018-12-19
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> And the follow up to that being, have we looked into any free, phone services, app services that could help assuage the situation? I was in Florida, for example. We had an app where we could check on our kids progress throughout the day. So I had a daily report of how they were doing, what they caused the school, if anything. But I can actually, it's easier for a person to see that they're 2 to $3 in debt than to see that they're 20 to $30 in debt and have that continuously stacking.
NEXT> Unidentified: Up.

[10161-278] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Petrin: 'As Corey said' [725]; 'Thank | 2018-12-19
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: Waiting on the letter.
TEXT> So there is an app for our food service. It's K12 payment center, and it works on, both, Android and Apple devices. And it tells you what your child ate that day. If they ate anything, you'll say chef meal or whatever it might say and what your balance is. I think that's great for the people who have downloaded the app and that who are using it. I think we still have a population of folks who don't think their children are accruing debt. They don't think their children are eating hot lunch, so they wouldn't think to set up the app on their phone to check. So I really strongly encourage all families with children in our school district to download the app, get the information they need. They can contact my office and list a small  that the s o office and get the correct ID number for the student in order to access the app, and that way you can track if your kid is accruing debt that you don't that you don't know about. They would it would populate there so you could see it as well.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: I've seen it in the school system. I didn't know about it.

[10161-329] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [0], runs age | 2018-12-19
PREV> Jason Benware: know, my only fear with that is if we've got a kid at the middle school and they accrue several hundred dollars worth of debt, and they continue to go to the school, and they continue to be fed because you have to feed them.
TEXT> Can I can I interrupt you before I'm talking about kids that are 12th graders right now, right.
NEXT> Jason Benware: What is fine? I'm just saying that if that's a policy and then we have kids 3 or 4 years down the road and they've got $5,000 worth of debt.

[10161-502] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Petrin: 'As Corey said' [725]; 'Thank | 2018-12-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: large supply list in order to operate. There's no competition issues with Newport, and so it was a first step at revamping some programing here in this building. And I think my a one of somebody's going to speak to that a little bit more.
TEXT> And then district wide, we are out of capacity with our current Esol teachers. So we need to add  a  little bit of additional support in order to maintain our compliance with our students who are English speakers of other languages. And then the big one that we've talked about here at the board level for several months now is a special ed. Elementary alternative program for students with behaviors. So if you look into your binder.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I.

[10161-523] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (roll 'Jason. Benne | 2018-12-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. We'd like to begin.
TEXT> I'll go.  So  I'm going to talk about the the alternative program for the kids with behavioral and emotional issues. Is is that a fair way to say that I think so. Okay. So we've had a fair amount of discussion about this. And the administration has has spoken about it in some length.  We need to look at is it's a big chunk of what's sort of in our budget this year. However,  when having conversations during this budget process, the, the subcommittee was sort of in agreement with the, the administration that this is something where we we need to really look at the needs of our, our schools and our community and sort of shift our resources to the areas where it's most needed. And right now, there are a lot of young kids coming through the elementary schools with some serious behavioral issues. So one of the nice things about this Alt program is that the initial cost to get it started. It's going to cost us some money.  Roughly $373,000. The actual cost of the program. Projected cost is 643,000 and change. But there are already bringing back three kids who are out of district at a cost of about 90,000 a kid.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So that's $270,000. Now, being conservative and realistically, there's probably other kids who could be sent out who may not be sent out, but since they're not being sent out,

[10161-526] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (roll 'Jason. Benne | 2018-12-19
PREV> Unidentified: Making money.
TEXT> Making money. Correct. So so, you know, the next five kids, it's about $450,000 you're actually making.  And that's the financial part of it. So I'm not somebody who likes to go out and just spend money. However, I am somebody who likes to invest money. And I believe that this is an investment in us being more frugal down the road. If it's something that really works over the next couple of years, which I'm confident it will, this is something that can be scaled up, hopefully, and eventually we can serve all the kids that we need serving who have this and hopefully others from other districts can tuition kids in. So from a financial standpoint alone, it makes sense. But there's more to it than that, in my opinion. There's the quality of life aspect of this. And so we have kids we're sending away, and some of the kids go as far as what, an hour and a half away.  These are kids with behavioral issues. So you put a kid in a car for an hour and a half.
NEXT> Jason Benware: My kids who don't have behavioral issues are jumping all over the place. I can only imagine what it's like for a kid with some behavioral issues to ride for

[10161-527] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (roll 'Jason. Benne | 2018-12-19
PREV> Jason Benware: this. And so we have kids we're sending away, and some of the kids go as far as what, an hour and a half away. These are kids with behavioral issues. So you put a kid in a car for an hour and a half.
TEXT> My kids who don't have behavioral issues are jumping all over the place. I can only imagine what it's like for a kid with some behavioral issues to ride for up to three hours of their day, so just bringing them back and educating them closer to home, it's better for them. But there's also the part where it's better for all the other kids to,  we really you know, there's this conversation about a least restrictive environment for learning for for kids. And I think that needs to and should apply to all students. So when you have a kid who's got behavioral issues, oftentimes it's tough for them. But it's also disruptive for the other kids in the class. If these kids are then getting what they need in another classroom, the other children also are going to reap the benefits of that. And I think that's really important to consider.  The more kids we can intervene at an early age, it's likely that we can stop them from maybe becoming, for lack of a better term. You know, we're dealing with kids at the high school level who perhaps if they had had an intervention at the elementary level, may not be in the state that they're in right now.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So, I'd, I'd love to hear all your opinions on this, but, it's our opinion of the subcommittee that this is something that is really worth investing. And I think

[10165-90] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (completes his introduction 'Chair of the | 2018-12-13
PREV> Jim: So.
TEXT> So what I'm hearing is the real concerns. What you can offer to the kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely. It's key. But also being fiscally responsible to our taxpayers. Yeah.

[10165-133] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (asked to outline the behavior program | 2018-12-13
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Right. Because, I think that would be important for them to hear.
TEXT> Sure.  One of the,  one of the proposals that has gone before the Claremont board is for  an what we kind of are calling an end district out of district placement. So we have  a number of students who we place out of district for a variety of different reasons. And we're finding that a growing number of those students,  are placed for behavioral and emotional supports. And we have a growing population of students in district who also need those supports. And the financial,  hardship of sending students out of district is large. And so we have we almost were able to to. Put it into place for this year. But then there was a scenario with the provider we were looking at that fell through at the last minute. So we didn't put in place for this school year. But coming back with the proposal to the school board for next school year, to start with two elementary behavioral classrooms  that initially will be housed in one of our schools as the program starts staffed with  administrator, social worker, mental health workers, and dual cert in theory, teachers in special and regular education.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And one of the classrooms would be they would be leveled. So the needs of the two classrooms or the profile of students who would be appropriate for those two

[10165-134] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (asked to outline the behavior program | 2018-12-13
PREV> Cory LeClair: board for next school year, to start with two elementary behavioral classrooms that initially will be housed in one of our schools as the program starts staffed with administrator, social worker, mental health workers, and dual cert in theory, teachers in special and regular education.
TEXT> And one of the classrooms would be they would be leveled. So the needs of the  two classrooms  or the profile of students who would be appropriate for those two classrooms would be slightly different depending on need. Our goal for year one is to bring three students who we currently have placed out of district, back  to this program in district, get the get the program off the ground and eventually have it be something that is probably housed in its own facility. Somewhere within the community.  And  then be a program that not only supports,  our community's or this community's children, but unis or children or Newport's children, you know, other children who have that need in this local region. So to try to keep our students in our communities closer to home. Save on transportation costs, keep them close, connected, closely connected to their home schools and their home families and their home,  environment and experiences and, and still provide them a quality education and the supports that they need to be successful with all of the things that they're struggling with.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So that's what we're that that's it went in front of our board. So it's sort of a preview to next week's discussion, too, at the same time for the

[10165-135] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (asked to outline the behavior program | 2018-12-13
PREV> Cory LeClair: them close, connected, closely connected to their home schools and their home families and their home, environment and experiences and, and still provide them a quality education and the supports that they need to be successful with all of the things that they're struggling with.
TEXT> So that's what we're that that's it went in front of our board. So it's sort of a preview to next week's discussion, too, at the same time for the Claremont board. But that's what's going to be coming back around. And we're looking at different ways to do that and really emphasizing that the program needs to be staffed appropriately for it to be effective. I think in, Frank might be able to speak to this a little bit better, but a number of years ago,  I would say ten plus years ago, there was a program that was done collaboratively between the Claremont School District and at least one other school district. And,  the  staffing wasn't what was necessary in order for those students to be successful. So, you know, the emphasis on our part really is ensuring that the staffing levels are appropriate for the needs of the students that you have in there so that they can be successful.  And what we're looking at for a model right now has a 1.3 year return on investment. So it's a really it could be something that is well, we expect that as something that would be very cost favorable moving forward.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And so really looking at different ways to accomplish a better end result. And we're able to accomplish now for our children and our collective communities in-house. So that's something

[10165-136] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (asked to outline the behavior program | 2018-12-13
PREV> Cory LeClair: they can be successful. And what we're looking at for a model right now has a 1.3 year return on investment. So it's a really it could be something that is well, we expect that as something that would be very cost favorable moving forward.
TEXT> And so really looking at different ways to accomplish a better end result. And we're able to accomplish now for our children and our collective communities in-house. So that's something that we're  in the process of at the moment. The Saw also provides technology services to,  unity and to Claremont, and that  we have a really strong technology department, great problem solvers, including technology integration specialists. And so that's in terms of services offered at the sea level. That's another area where we do provide a lot of support, and that it's not just the one on one support with, you know, my laptop died. I need you to come fix it for me or I can't get into my email. It's also,  our our team supports the,  as the technology director walks. In the room. Hi, Josh. Our our team supports the annual reports that need to be done,  that the board may not be as familiar with, but I know Michelle is familiar with, and running all of our E and boy submissions and things of that nature. So  a lot of that back end stuff that's required to be done on an annual and regular basis. So that's another level that is maybe not as a parent to people, but that exists.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: And they definitely support us. We just got in unity, fiber optic. Internet. And that came to us through the saw technology department saying, well, so we have an opportunity

[10165-250] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent report [294 | 2018-12-13
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: No. Absolutely.
TEXT> Otherwise, we continue to evaluate our strengths and needs relative to instruction. That's an ongoing process, a daily process. We continue, particularly here in Claremont, to work with the DC wife and the Claremont Piece police relative to the needs of our students. This takes a considerable amount of time for both Corey and I,  in supporting our building administrators and the parents and guardians. Part of reason, you know, became loud and clear that we needed the program that we're presenting to you in the budget. It came from these individual incident reports and things that we have. Please report, least in Claremont, that we have a tentative agreement with the Claremont Administrators Association.  We met with them, and I think this year it was a cooperative communication back and forth. And, they understood what our limitations were,  and, you know, but yet I think we moved forward.  Our ministers make a significant contrary contribution to the success of our schools. And I certainly recognize that, I have some ideas for goals moving forward that I'm trying to achieve. You certainly have. It can have. Please have input to that. Certainly. First is we need to complete the budget process for 1920.
NEXT> Keith Pfeifer: We will continue to work forward through the review of policies for Claremont and Unity. And once I think we end the superintendent search process, maybe we could start that

[10165-294] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent report [294 | 2018-12-13
PREV> Keith Pfeifer: I think it's a model that will work here. I'm very vocal about my opinion of education as it may be constituted presently. One to be an adult education, students have to drop out of school. So our dropout rate goes and it's just seamless.
TEXT> In the evening division, they graduate with a Timberland Regional High School diploma. They have several side by side other programs. They have high step. We have high step. So, we would like to add  some time in the near future. Introduce that to you. See if you're interested. You know, we want to be able to educate as many of our kids in different ways, different strategies, maybe even different places. You know, I commend Scott Pope for his work with Waylon and that experience for our kids. I think we need more of that. And we are looking at perhaps some other opportunities. But as I leave you, maybe this can move forward. Because our goal is try to not have kids drop out of school to get an education. They're going to need it in the 21st century.  And there's has been running successfully with Doe Pro for 17 years. Something must be right.
NEXT> Sara Lowe: I think that's helpful for young parents as well. You know, certainly have some parents.

[10165-299] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent report [294 | 2018-12-13
PREV> Carolyn Towle: QuickBooks, and I could take it six months from now or eight months from now at River Valley. I needed it right then, and there was nothing in our area to be offered. So I'm not the only one that's gone through that transition. So,
TEXT> There we, you know, we created and, you know, the original goal of that program was to serve at risk groups. We had our high fliers, those students who are booked into everything during the day they possibly could. Plus, there's more drama, music and other things.  And they asked they wanted a course in marine science, which we didn't have anybody to teach and couldn't put it into the curriculum. We offered that during the night, in the spring of the first year of the program, and we had 27  of our high fliers who enrolled in that. We partnered with NH and their marine science programs. You know, I think we did one on meteorology. So, I mean, we tried to listen, what is what is it? Our consumers, our students. What do you want? What do you need? And  to provide a strategy for trying to do that. So I, I hope maybe we can move forward with that.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: So it would be wonderful.

[10185-14] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (introduced by the  | 2019-01-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: now, needing tutor because families don't speak English. So we're looking to hire an additional part time tutor for them. And then the district wide also is a special ed elementary alternative program. This is 373,000, which this program, Jason is going to talk about.
TEXT> In one moment here. Okay, folks. So I think any every district should periodically look at the needs of their, their schools. And so we're looking at that. And what we see is there's a need for,  programs for kids with behavioral,  issues  at a, at an early age. There are there are numerous students  in the, the elementary classes that have serious needs that are hard to address in a normal classroom setting. So  the proposal is to start an alternative program for these students at the elementary level. The the current design has two classrooms, a level one and or a level two and a level three room.  There's a  a social worker that works with both classrooms. In each classroom there are,  a dual certified teacher and two mental health workers and one in a dual certified teacher and three mental health workers, and the other one total  of nine staff members. Nine. Four. Seven.  The staffing cost is $623,000 a year. However, we send kids out to out of district placement at a cost of about 90,000 per kid. So  there are three kids that are going to get brought back into the district this year, and that leaves room for nine more kids overall in the classrooms.  But you can't really count those kids at this point because we're not sending them out, or so bringing them back.
NEXT> Jason Benware: It's sort of kind of imaginary money at this point. But just those three kids we send out is a is a savings of $270,000 to the district. So when

[10185-15] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (introduced by the  | 2019-01-02
PREV> Jason Benware: that are going to get brought back into the district this year, and that leaves room for nine more kids overall in the classrooms. But you can't really count those kids at this point because we're not sending them out, or so bringing them back.
TEXT> It's sort of kind of imaginary money at this point. But just those three kids we send out is a is a savings of $270,000 to the district. So when you take that out of the total projected cost, the the actual projected cost this year for this program is $373,914.  It's projected that the return on investment for this program will be 1.3 years. Anything over seven kids in the program, you're essentially making money, and it looks as though it will not be hard to find 12 kids to be in this program.  Beyond the actual cost and the savings and looking ahead, the the the ability to invest something right now to be more frugal as a district further down the road. Beyond that, beyond the monetary part of this, there's a there's a quality of life issue thing for all of the kids involved, not just the kids who who really need these services and, and can get what they need in this special kind of classroom. But all the other kids that share the classroom with these kids, because there's this notion of a least restrictive environment that has been known, where a kid is entitled to a least restrictive learning environment, and it's always sort of been applied to kids with special needs.
NEXT> Jason Benware: However, the kids that don't have special needs also are entitled to this non restrictive or at least restrictive environment as well. By having some of these kids move into

[10185-16] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (introduced by the  | 2019-01-02
PREV> Jason Benware: other kids that share the classroom with these kids, because there's this notion of a least restrictive environment that has been known, where a kid is entitled to a least restrictive learning environment, and it's always sort of been applied to kids with special needs.
TEXT> However, the kids that don't have special needs also are entitled to this non restrictive or at least restrictive environment as well. By having some of these kids move into this special program, it should also increase the quality of learning for all the kids in the school. And it also keeps our kids closer to home, the ones that need these types of services. If we keep them closer to home, they're going to have a better educational experience and they might get back seven, eight, ten hours of their life every week where they don't have to travel. Some of these kids travel as far as an hour and a half each direction to get to where they have to be, with a behavioral issue, I'd imagine spending an hour and a half in a car doesn't help that any. So  yes, we have to invest something up front, but this is truly an investment as far as we're concerned because it makes sense. We're not just throwing money at something. This is something that will help kids, and it will also help our community to save some money over the long, long run. So I hope everybody considers this.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I am Frank Sprague. I'm the chair of the board. I'm going to talk to you about the warrants. Okay. As you can see, the operating budget is 31,000,828 and

[10185-17] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (self-identifies 'I am Frank Sprague. I'm | 2019-01-02
PREV> Jason Benware: as far as we're concerned because it makes sense. We're not just throwing money at something. This is something that will help kids, and it will also help our community to save some money over the long, long run. So I hope everybody considers this.
TEXT> I am Frank Sprague. I'm the chair of the board. I'm going to talk to you about the warrants. Okay. As you can see, the operating budget is 31,000,828  and $63. So the tax rate increase for the regular operating budget is $0.46 on the dollar. Evaluation. Security updates. We're looking to remove that. It looks like at a savings of $0.19 on the tax rate. Roofing improvements. That's an ongoing project.  Again, as Jason or Mike, Mike had said, it's so important that we maintain buildings if they're going to,  keeping small problems from becoming big problems. We have to have ongoing maintenance. So that's 100,000, but it's no increase over last year. So the tax rate, there is no impact on the tax rate there.  The next three are around, student safety issues. Dennard has a very archaic fire panel,  that is in need of repair or replacement, and that has a impact of $0.11 district wide radios. Just a little bit of information on this. We had a a recent emergency here in town. Schools were put on lockdown, and it became pretty glaringly apparent that, schools had no ability to communicate with each other. Limited ability to interact with police, fire and rescue. So pretty major flaw in the system revealed when we had that person with a gun downtown.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So most of this is, it says radios, but in reality it's the infrastructure so that the radios work. Relatively speaking, the radios are probably $300 a piece or $250

[10185-93] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [64, 147, 158, 82 | 2019-01-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: We've had this presented a couple of times.
TEXT> No, I mean, as far as the first thing. Yeah. So my question, I have a couple of questions over, did you consult anyone other than, did you consult community members or did you have anyone to  talk to from disabilities to understand statistics or or did you talk to anyone about, from American Disabilities Act, you know, to, you know, that we're not infringing on the rights of our children to have the right to be all inclusive, which is a pretty and I. And so I'm kind of curious about that because, you know, I, I, I think that position.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think you're talking about least restrictive environment perhaps. And right. So students can be in the least restrictive environment. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So there but there's a flip

[10185-96] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'listening to Rebecca and Mi | 2019-01-02
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And so did you talk to parents who have children in these situations or grandparents? Because I'm not hearing any type of so this.
TEXT> I just want to bring it back around. This is about the hot topic that we've been having since I've been on the board about sending kids out of district or keeping them in district. And I believe for the longest time we were all on board about trying to find a program to bring these kids in. So I'm assuming, which I probably shouldn't, but I'm assuming that, everything that has been decided on and discussed on is 100% legal because we could be in serious trouble if it were not.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And I'm not speculating that it's illegal. That's not even when you're saying.

[10185-109] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'I'm going to let Assistant Su | 2019-01-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Which is.
TEXT> Fine and have had opportunities to elicit public feedback. We've talked with families, we've talked with different providers. We've consulted with the Department of Education to see how to structure a program that best meets the kids needs in a more community based environment, as opposed to sending them out. So we've felt like we've been following the direction of the board, with this and  trying and the will or the sentiment of the community  about creating a program in-house instead of sending our kids to other communities for this  same, if not better learning opportunities.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I have I have serious.

[10185-198] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'I'm going to let Assistant Su | 2019-01-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Opposed? Okay, great. So we're moving forward to policy subcommittee. Second and final read.
TEXT> Packet of policies in front of you. We did first read at the last meeting. And so. Just looking to finalize that. Meeting again January 10th, we have a whole nother batch of policies to review. And so just working through that process to make sure that we are in a regular review cycle and up to date, and that our policies meet the needs of our community and our students and staff. So the fact that you have in front of you has revisions in it is strike through in bold. If it's a changed, it's a completely new policy. If we just chose to adopt the New Hampshire School Board Association version.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And these have all been vetted by the, by the policy sub, by the subcommittee.

[10232-20] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member; budget subcommittee (presents Article 2 | 2019-02-06
PREV> Jason Benware: salary increases. So those are those salary increases for people that are not under the union. That is $55,681. We have an increase of $93,134. In benefit costs such as health insurance, retirement and dental, out of district placement and contracted services is up $71,087.
TEXT> Okay. Moving on. So it's a total whoop. Sorry. Can we go back  to the back one? A total fixed cost increases in 813,780. Next. Okay. Revenues.  Our revenues from total local sources  are up to $25,000 at 1,007,500.  Our total state source revenues are down $30,000 at 353,000 024. And we'll talk more about this in a moment.  Total federal sources  are 3871  500. And that's no change.  Our adequacy funding, which includes stabilization funding, is down $71,061.  That's a 12,113,000 915.  And we returned for and $43,527 back to the taxpayers from last year. There's no change there. So our total revenue loss is 76,061. This will come important in the loan  movement. So some of you may have heard,  we were having school funding issues in this state. One of the big ones is that we continually losing stabilization funds, which are the funds that are supposed to help.  Less. Less wealthy communities  to continue to their children  appropriately.  We  are losing 4% a year.  Which equates to about $225,000 a year every year. The compounds for the next 21 years now,  we  lost 71000061 this year. It could have been more, but we did a really good job of our average daily attendance, average daily membership. So since we did a great job of keeping a high percentage of our kids going to school every day, we lost less than we could have.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So kudos to our district for doing that. We also lost $30,000 in excess special education aid. It used to be called catastrophic aid. That's a that we get for

[10232-25] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member; budget subcommittee (presents Article 2 | 2019-02-06
PREV> Jason Benware: As far as being asked for. So the district wide savings, the reductions of 307 hundred lines, those are simply the the lines that I just talked about supplies and, and those types of things are reduced by $12,373. So the total reductions proposed $633,752.44.
TEXT> Recommended additions.  One of the things at our retreat that was important to all of us on the board was that we lended more support to the tax setting, and that we  understood and realized the tech center needs to become a thriving location again. So we're going to start off this year. We'd like to start a ROTC  class to gauge the interest in potentially ending the program. The cost for that class for hiring a four  time equivalent ROTC teacher is  as of $300. The cost for the supplies and the computer for that program is $1,900. We also notice in our district that there's a greater need for people who are English learners, English as a second language. So we would like to increase in hire a  0.2 full time equivalent. SOL tutor with a cost of $6,644 and probably the greatest, cost addition to this budget is our special education elementary alternative program. So that's $373,914, for a total additions of $400,738. So I think one of the things that I did district does  on a periodic basis is to reevaluate the needs of the kids in the district. The  third one, school district, has a increasing number of  elementary aged children who have serious behavioral and emotional issues that, that typical classroom setting really can't solve or serve them well.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Because of that, we don't have a lot of options. We try to do our best or we can send them out of district. Out of district costs are very

[10232-26] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member; budget subcommittee (presents Article 2 | 2019-02-06
PREV> Jason Benware: periodic basis is to reevaluate the needs of the kids in the district. The third one, school district, has a increasing number of elementary aged children who have serious behavioral and emotional issues that, that typical classroom setting really can't solve or serve them well.
TEXT> Because of that, we don't have a lot of options. We try to do our best or we can send them out of district.  Out of district costs are very expensive to average kid to go out of district in about $90,000. So we are proposing an alternative program for some of these kids. This program will consist in two classrooms and one meal schools. It has nine total staff, one administrator to oversee it. If you look at the  diagram, there's one social worker that's put in the two classrooms. The level two classes in which I would say, was less severe, a level three would be capable of grade, and so level two would have  one full certified teacher and two mental health workers in it. Level three would have one certified teacher with three mental health health workers. Each classroom and capacity can serve as six kids, so it would be a total of 12 kids. What does that mean to us? Sort of from a financial standpoint.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So the total staffing cost for this $123,014, 15,000 for supplies and $5,950. So a total projected cost for a year one $642,914. However, we have three kids right now

[10232-28] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member; budget subcommittee (presents Article 2 | 2019-02-06
PREV> Jason Benware: know, many investments you can make where you pay off in less than a year. And also we need to consider the other part of this beyond the money, the I'm not somebody who likes to spend money, but I do like to invest money.
TEXT> And I think this is an investment. It's also an investment in the education of all of our children. We often talk about the, the idea of a least restrictive environment for, for kids. And we talked about that. We  talked about a special education a lot. And these kids deserve a restrictive environment. But if they're not getting what they need and the typical classroom, what we see is their least restrictive environment is also making it a very restrictive environment for those around you as well. If we can set up a program where these kids are getting what they need, then our other kids will also be getting what they need.  And I think that's sort of a win win for for everyone. So if money isn't what trips are, trigger the idea of giving these kids something that they need and kind of increasing the overall educational value of the kids in the school should be. Another thing to consider is travel time. For some of these days, these kids that need to go out of district, some of them travel an hour, an hour and a half each direction. Kids with behavioral issues. I can imagine that doesn't really help them to be in a car for an hour. An hour and a half.  I know my own children who don't have too many behavioral issues.
NEXT> Jason Benware: They typically at their in the car and a half, it's pretty difficult for them. So if nothing else, can we bring our kids closer to home? They're certainly going

[10232-29] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member; budget subcommittee (presents Article 2 | 2019-02-06
PREV> Jason Benware: hour, an hour and a half each direction. Kids with behavioral issues. I can imagine that doesn't really help them to be in a car for an hour. An hour and a half. I know my own children who don't have too many behavioral issues.
TEXT> They typically at their in the car  and a half, it's pretty difficult for them. So if nothing else, can we bring our kids closer to home? They're certainly going to get the benefit of having some of their lives back as well. So, to me, I think that this is kind of a win win situation. We keep our kids closer to home and we invest in frugality further down the road. I understand that spending money and raising your taxes is never something that's generally appealing, but in this scenario, it's something that if you spend it up front, you're going to reap dividends down the road. So I hope you will consider this. Okay. So these warrants are going to be spoken to by others in moments.  The main article, the operating budget is $31,828. The tax rate and impact for that would be $0.46 per 1000. The security upgrades that were proved last year are going to be removed from fiscal year 20. So that's going to be a $0.19 savings  on on the budget, on the on the tax rate. So realistically speaking, the operating budget would be affected by $0.27 because roofing improvements, those are already been approved. It's $100,000 that you will see no tax increase from approving that. The  fire panel is an $80,000 cost.  The cost of living sense. More on your taxes for one district wide radios $249,950, which would equate to a 35 cent increase in your taxes.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And cameras on busses, $51,000 would be an increase of $0.07 per thousand. The total of all warnings, $32,309,013 would increase the tax rate of all warrants were approved by

[10232-38] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member (candidate on the 2019 ballot) | 2019-02-06
PREV> Tracy Pope: Oh, yes. Rob Lovett, I'm sorry.
TEXT> Obviously I. My name is Bob Lovett. I am speaking on behalf of article three roofing repairs at Bluffs Elementary School.  Shall we? Claremont School District vote to raise an appropriate the sum of $100,000 for the purpose of roofing repairs at Bluff Elementary School. Wishing to speak against this amendment. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of this amendment? Mr..
NEXT> Unidentified: I would like to add to that that this has no impact on the on the tax rate, the it's zero effect on the tax rate is my understanding.

[10232-55] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, Claremont School District (introduced by Dr. P | 2019-02-06
PREV> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak in favor of this amendment.
TEXT> Joshua Ward one. We did a lot of research on this before we brought it to chief.  And trying to figure out what would be the best thing for the district. I'm going to be quick because, I just feel like I don't have to explain a lot about it, but it is a modern system. It integrates with broadband, so you can use all sorts of different devices with it. So you can use it today, tomorrow, in the future to integrate with all sorts of different devices. It should be able to work throughout our buildings during a crisis situation. So this this would be good during a crisis. But what I'm really excited about is it can help us in those crucial moments, those crucial seconds where something is just something that happens that doesn't get into the newspapers and as a result, because we can handle it there quickly and it gets resolved and it's done. When I was a teacher and we didn't have working, devices that we could talk to quickly, things that didn't need to be emergencies, often happen that were bad for our students. This puts device into the hands of people that need it. So if they're if they're dealing with a situation, I'm hoping that that situation doesn't become a crisis.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: There's a lot of great things with this. I'm very excited about it. It's got some advanced technologies to be able to tie in to not only the PD department,

[10232-69] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (moderator thanks 'Mr. Blair', read as | 2019-02-06
PREV> Unidentified: are, because unless you can hear here and see it, it's more of a deficit that go forward. And that's my biggest question on it. If it's going to be able to have audio as well as visual in the system. So I believe that.
TEXT> The system is audio only the way that the New Hampshire Stack video only, excuse me, the way that the Hampshire statutes work. There are different rules for audio recordings, and there are for video recordings. To add a system that included audio recordings would be much more complex  in terms of parental permissions and things of that nature. And so it's really a system designed to support both students, families and administrators and ensuring safety on all of our busses. We have a significant amount of our administrative time tied up with dealing with bus issues. Currently, we have installed video surveillance in all of our schools at this time,  so the busses are the logical next step to to address discipline issues, bullying issues and other issues as they arise. The data storage is is dictated by state statute, what we're allowed to do, what we're not allowed to do with it. Who's allowed to see the information? How is it in students educational records? All of that currently is defined and dictated by state statute. And of course, follow that in accordance with the law, as we are currently with our, surveillance that are in the schools. And then looking at cameras on the outside of busses. We do work very closely with the police department and the video footage on the outside of the busses in to ensure our student safety as well.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Our exterior video on our school buildings has helped the Claremont Police Department resolve some issues already. And we expect that the bus systems will help to keep our kids

[10232-70] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (moderator thanks 'Mr. Blair', read as | 2019-02-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: with our, surveillance that are in the schools. And then looking at cameras on the outside of busses. We do work very closely with the police department and the video footage on the outside of the busses in to ensure our student safety as well.
TEXT> Our exterior video on our school buildings has helped the Claremont Police Department resolve some issues already. And we expect that the bus systems will help to keep our kids safe in resolving issues as well.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you, Mr. Blair. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of this article? Anyone wishing to speak against this article? Seeing none. We'll have a voice vote. Article six purchase

[10232-81] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-02-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: to be able to put technology in our classrooms. We'd like to be able to have this alternative program, which I think is, critical. Going to digress just for a second. I went last Saturday. Two Saturdays ago I went to a school board association.
TEXT> That was it was the the delegate assembly. Thank you. And  we heard a presentation by Merrimack School District. And what they were essentially doing is talking to us as school board members. And in my particular case there with my experience of sort of preaching to the choir,  but the other board members, they were saying, if you were come to you  and they'd start talking about childhood trauma and what they have little kids that are kindergartners and preschool that are exhibiting extreme measures to the point of suspensions, and not a district placement for little kids. This is the Merrimack School Board. The Merrimack administrators talking to the school board. There were, about 60 school boards represented. The message was, if they come to you, they're not kidding. This is everywhere. I looked around the room, their school board members from Bedford, from the search district  everywhere. All not in their heads. It's everywhere folks. It isn't just our mind. So I want people to keep it in mind that we have so much that we're trying to do, and we've tried to do it so responsibly. Please, please support the main budget. If we go with the default budget. It's going to hurt. It's going to be painful. And it could really affect some programs that we really don't want to patch.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So that's all I have to say about that. And I really hope that people will not succumb to the temptation of voting to save a few dollars, to save

[10232-83] Tracy Pope | School district moderator, presiding (uncertain - not named on this re | 2019-02-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: So that's all I have to say about that. And I really hope that people will not succumb to the temptation of voting to save a few dollars, to save a few cents on their tax cut. Thank you.
TEXT> That concludes tonight's meeting. On behalf of the school district, I want to thank you for your time tonight and remind you that the second district meeting is March 12th, 2019 with nine and drive safely.
NEXT> 

[10252-11] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School | 2019-02-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Carolyn. Further discussion. All those in favor? Opposed? Okay. Mr. Herzog is here tonight. All right.
TEXT> So, from Stephens High School,  the shows NH HEF early College Planning Committee  will be in town on Wednesday, February 20th. Tonight  at the school library. And the grade transition night will be held from 6:00 to 730  tomorrow.  The Stephens High School Youth and Government Club went to the regional caucus  at Kearsarge Regional High School, and six members were elected to precisions of Leadership. Those being Alex Taylor, the district nine nominee for governor.  Carson Huber, the education chair.  Leann McCarthy, Health and Human Services co-chair. Prescott Herzog for Senator  Josh Treadway, lobbyist. And Gabby Sabo for press corps.  We were the biggest delegation,  which is quite a change from the past couple of years.  So it's really nice to see  students starting to get involved in the legislative process. Does not. Elementary school.  Congratulations to Kaylee Ferland, who's to Disney finalist in the National Geographic GOP.  Many thanks to Mrs. Laura Keller for organizing this event for us and our students, who are gearing up to celebrate the 100th day of school at Claremont Middle School.  The eighth grade will be going on a field trip to Keene State College on March 8th, on a trip sponsored by Gear Up,  and over the next several months, EMS will be busy with the eighth graders, encouraging them to think about peace of goals using the career and college platform.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Now that's CMS. Eighth graders will also to start to start selecting their classes the next year as they become freshmen and then make live. On Friday, February 22nd, Maple

[10252-22] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-02-20
PREV> Prescott Herzog: Yes.
TEXT> Thank you. So I want to I want to add one more thing on to the student report. I want to congratulate the bowling team. They were they were state champions. So I used to coach that team. So it's they're really proud of them. Other questions for Prescott. Okay.  Superintendents report.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: A few additional announcements around the many amazing things their schools are doing. It allowed me to be hosting an art show at Valley Regional Hospital, coming up on March

[10252-23] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-02-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: want to add one more thing on to the student report. I want to congratulate the bowling team. They were they were state champions. So I used to coach that team. So it's they're really proud of them. Other questions for Prescott. Okay. Superintendents report.
TEXT> A few additional announcements around the many amazing things their schools are doing. It allowed me to be hosting an art show at Valley Regional Hospital, coming up on March 6th from 5 to 7. So I'll be sending a fire out to all of you.  Bluff has had art on the walls at Valley Regional for some time, and so now the The Bluff art has come down and the maple art is going up. Arrowhead Ski Area, which is not necessarily directly connected with our schools, but I know our students and families appreciate the  incredible resource it is is looking for volunteers. So if you're sitting at home this evening and think about wanting to be outside on the evenings, on the weekends or during the day, on the weekends and can involuntary arrowhead, I know that they are looking for volunteers for their program, and a lot of our students take advantage of that opportunity during the upcoming school. We had a PD day last week on Wednesday and the focus across the district was safety. So I believe all of the buildings practiced their safety drills. Some of the drills had never been practiced before.  And so they were able to walk through those drills. Everybody being on the same page with their understanding of how things were supposed to be executed in the time of a crisis.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And, then we spent some time in the afternoon digging deeper into understanding the impact of trauma on students. The elementary folks worked with Aaron Barnett. There was an article

[10252-24] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-02-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: their safety drills. Some of the drills had never been practiced before. And so they were able to walk through those drills. Everybody being on the same page with their understanding of how things were supposed to be executed in the time of a crisis.
TEXT> And, then we spent some time in the afternoon digging deeper into understanding the impact of trauma on students. The elementary folks worked with Aaron Barnett. There was an article in the I forget which paper about that. I think it was was there.  And so Aaron presented on sort of what trauma is, how it presents itself and what that looks like in our children a little bit on how to respond. And then I know our middle and high school folks,  attended a film at the Claremont Cinema Center. There was a little bit of technical difficulty with the actual execution of the film. I think I heard it was a little bit pink and purple or pink and green color wasn't quite right because they were having issues on their end at the cinema Center. They had lost their computer systems earlier that day.  But we were able to show Paper Tigers. I have a copy in my office. I've also been told it's available on Netflix for free.  But it's an amazing film that helps us all better understand what some of our students are experiencing.  And there'll be more to come on this topic of trauma and the impact of trauma on our students and staff.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: In the days and weeks to come. And then lastly, we're wrapping up our mid-year testing. We have data teams. I know some data teams met today. Impact teams also

[10252-25] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-02-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: it's available on Netflix for free. But it's an amazing film that helps us all better understand what some of our students are experiencing. And there'll be more to come on this topic of trauma and the impact of trauma on our students and staff.
TEXT> In the days and weeks to come.  And then lastly, we're wrapping up our mid-year testing. We have data teams. I know some data teams met today. Impact teams also analyzing what that looks like for our students, identifying how much growth they made, where they made growth, and what next steps are for not only general classroom instruction but intervention. And so we will be presenting, the I read a mid-year presentation probably at the next the 1st March meeting,  similar to what we've done in the years past, but just to make sure everybody is aware of the growth and and on the same page.  And it's been quite a while since we met as a board in this venue. I know there was a board retreat on February 9th, but also on February 9th, there was the Claremont Elementary Schools Drama Festival at the opera House. And there were many, many, many of our students who participated in that. It was a wonderful experience in the afternoon for all three schools.  So I just wanted to publicly acknowledge and thanks Stacy for her work on that process  and giving our kids the opportunity to experience theater and drama that they likely otherwise wouldn't get. So that concludes my report for this evening.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Okay. With that, I'd like to open citizens comments. If anyone would like to speak to the board, approach the podium with your name and your word. Seeing

[10252-33] Nancy Lewis | Teacher and student council advisor, Stevens High School (self-identif | 2019-02-20
PREV> Nancy Lewis: only from the top and from teachers, but also students as well. With that in mind, the student Council is transforming itself into a place where students who identify a need for leadership in transforming school culture and for and who are interested in leadership.
TEXT> And I'm including Prescott in this.  They they're coming together. So no longer are we simply trying to be a place where pep rallies and dances happen.  With that in mind there, the student council, the National Student Council organization, has been  trying to instill leadership into every organization by offering conferences and seminars and workshops. Oh,  I don't know. In October, the officers of the student council who are here tonight, and I'm going to invite them up right now.  Came to me and said, Miss Lewis, we really want to be a part of this. And we realize that we can't we can't be leaders in our school if we don't know how to lead, if we haven't got the training. And this is above and beyond my understanding of how to be an advisor in this organization. So I didn't even know about the lead conference. They brought it to my attention. The lead conferences are,  organized by the student council and the National Association for principals.  They happen three times a year or so. Washington, DC in Chicago. We were too late for the Orlando and Washington, DC trips. And quite frankly, as you know, I'm retiring this year. So I was I was on the on the one hand trying to encourage them, but I was also pulling back.  Which is why it's my fault that we procrastinated as long as we have. The lead conference in Chicago is on March 24th.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: What happened to make it work was that my colleague, Karen stepped forward and said that she would she would go for the students on the trip. I'll pass out

[10252-34] Nancy Lewis | Teacher and student council advisor, Stevens High School (self-identif | 2019-02-20
PREV> Nancy Lewis: year. So I was I was on the on the one hand trying to encourage them, but I was also pulling back. Which is why it's my fault that we procrastinated as long as we have. The lead conference in Chicago is on March 24th.
TEXT> What happened to make it work was that my colleague, Karen  stepped forward and said that she would she would go  for the students on the trip. I'll pass out some information. I'd like my students. These are the officers of the student council. One is missing. She couldn't make it tonight, but I'd like to turn the podium over to them briefly and have them explain why they think that a conference like this is so important. Go ahead.
NEXT> Leah McCarthy: Hello. My name is Leah McCarthy, and I'm a senior at Stevens High School. And I'm also the secretary of student council. And we found this conference to be, intriguing

[10252-42] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-02-20
PREV> Nancy Lewis: enter the conference. They'll be back on a Sunday night and ready to go back to school. I believe Miss Berry said that she would give them school sanction to take the day off, that the day after they get back, but that's go ahead.
TEXT> Questions for the student council are the teachers?
NEXT> Jason Benware: Yes. Sounds great. I'm just curious. So how many students total and how many chaperons.

[10252-58] Nancy Lewis | Teacher and student council advisor, Stevens High School (self-identif | 2019-02-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Could I ask you to come back and just give us a follow up?
TEXT> Absolutely. We'll do that with youth in government as well. Yes. No. We'd love to come and share what we do.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Thank you.

[10252-63] Leah McCarthy | Stevens High School senior; student council secretary and senior class | 2019-02-20
PREV> Nancy Lewis: Okay. So I'd also like to invite up. Yeah, we're doing the one, and I'm going to let you talk. I don't know anything about it. I mean, I do know of it, but I can't sell it, so. So go for it.
TEXT> Hi. I'm liane. McCarthy again. So  still. Being passed around. Right now. Is a packet for the student leadership conference. And  I went on this trip last. Year. With three other. Juniors at the time, and it was a really good experience. And it's also obviously about leadership, and it was more oriented towards sports. And I took a lot from it. And I discovered a I discovered a lot of ideas about it, including  the thoughts of having a combined pep. Rally. With a neighboring town or,  also just more bonding activities throughout the school. And it really helped start up our assault program, which is our student athletic leadership team, which I'm the vice president for. And it really helped us. It really helped us. It helped us start up a lot of leadership throughout the school as well as athletes. We're able to have more leadership roles within our school and community, and we do like half time games now where we get the fans involved and we do a lot. We have a lot of meetings throughout school just to touch base, and we're also having the idea of starting to do like player of the month and stuff just to recognize,  outstanding athletes, rider school as well as just just getting everyone involved. So I really liked this conference and I honestly was not prepared to speak about it today. So that's probably why it seems like I'm rambling, but.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Not at all.

[10252-68] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-02-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Jason. And then.
TEXT> Well, I'm always for anything that teaches leadership that our students can learn from. So if anybody else wants to say anything, they can. But I was simply going to make a motion.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: That's what I was going to do.

[10252-70] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-02-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: That's what I was going to do.
TEXT> So I would like to make a motion to approve our students to that wish to go to the student leadership conference.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: A second.

[10252-78] Jennifer Ferland | Registrar, cheer coach and senior class advisor, Stevens High School ( | 2019-02-20
PREV> Jason Benware: Per student. So it's $9 a kid per night? No, no. Okay, I thought okay, but still, let's keep money.
TEXT> Also included in that price. They're going to give us two meals.  They will do dinner for us that first night that we're there and breakfast the next morning. Yeah, it's an incredible deal. We are proposing that we go down on a coach bus, and I've gotten a proposal from the premier coach line with a price for that. Everything will be paid for by senior class fund raising funds that we've raised throughout the last four years, and some senior class dues that the kids pay  as well. So the only thing the students will be responsible for are two meals. And then the class funds will also provide lunch. One of the days will bring sandwich things and stuff to make lunch while we're there.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Are you in need of chaperon?

[10252-92] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-02-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. One more.
TEXT> That's the youth in government, right?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Yes. Mrs. Lewis, were you presenting tonight on youth in government as well? Oh, yes. I had another request from youth and government for a trip on April 5th and

[10252-93] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-02-20
PREV> Jason Benware: That's the youth in government, right?
TEXT> Yes. Mrs. Lewis, were you presenting tonight on youth in government as well? Oh, yes. I had another request from youth and government for a trip on April 5th and sixth. Oh.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Literally.

[10252-96] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School | 2019-02-20
PREV> Nancy Lewis: So I had. No, I wrote that I didn't know it had not come in front of the board. Oh, yeah. I'll let them. Do you do the talking?
TEXT> So, this is our annual youth and government legislation legislative weekend.  It's going to be the 200th year of the state House being created. So they'll be doing some celebration on that.  And we'll be working on bills like we always have. There's some pretty interesting ones from Stevens this year. Yeah, I can explain hers. I did mine about the official state Raptor,  creating a minimum size for popcorns at movie theaters and then regulating in term weight study times. And then also I'm going to be running for Senate president, so. But yeah, it's going to be fun if, if it gets approved.
NEXT> Unidentified: I created two bills, and my first bill was banning the sale of cigarettes and pharmacies. And then the my second bill was more of a fun bill, and it

[10252-97] Unidentified | Stevens High School youth and government student (not named) | 2019-02-20
PREV> Prescott Herzog: the official state Raptor, creating a minimum size for popcorns at movie theaters and then regulating in term weight study times. And then also I'm going to be running for Senate president, so. But yeah, it's going to be fun if, if it gets approved.
TEXT> I created two bills, and my first bill was banning the sale of cigarettes and pharmacies. And then the my second bill was more of a fun bill, and it was prohibiting men from being shirtless in public. And, so those are my two bills, and I'm also the co-chair. So if this were to get approved, I'm really looking forward to having a leadership role in the communities and in youth in government.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Good for you.

[10252-99] Nancy Lewis | Teacher and student council advisor, Stevens High School (self-identif | 2019-02-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Good for you.
TEXT> Youth and government is a YMA,  run program. It's been 200th anniversary. It's a very popular program. And Stevens High School has a huge presence there. There are there are around 400 students who participate. We have the largest delegation.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Of how many are going. Nancy?

[10252-101] Nancy Lewis | Teacher and student council advisor, Stevens High School (self-identif | 2019-02-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Of how many are going. Nancy?
TEXT> 33. Maybe. At last count, we have the largest delegation. We have the most number of bills. We are really excited. We've never had this large delegation. We have students who are really, really interested in having a voice in Stevens right now. And we're well, fortunately, we have organizations like youth and Government and student Council to sort of ride that wave right now. It's really great.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Did you know? Question.

[10252-156] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-02-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Like.
TEXT> That, or something to that effect or just, I think that just from local  walkathon and things like that, when people actually have a structure in their mind as to what they're paying for rather than, oh, you're going to you're going to hike, I'll give you $25. It's it would if you structure it in more so like, okay, well if she does 25 I'll give her $25. If she does all of them, I'll give her 50 or whatever the case may be. That may be something you may want to consider, but I'm I'm in support of anybody who wants to do anything to further the needs of our kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think I and I'm going to echo Corey. It needs to be done intentionally and carefully because whatever we do, it's, potentially a precedent for the next time someone

[10252-209] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-02-20
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Cool right now.
TEXT> But Pat Barry probably could give you the contact information, and it's something the kids could do.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: From Chamber of Commerce.

[10252-222] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-02-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I think it's the last page backstage. The very last page after the policies is the monthly.
TEXT> Update regarding the school lunch. Debt. For the district. We have been calling individual families, establishing payment plans,  as much as possible for those with substantial debt so that the debt is paid off by the end of the year. Cleaning up a lot of errors in classification. We've found duplicate accounts for students where on one account they might be classified as free or reduced, and on the other count their full paid status. And so eliminating the incorrect account in those situations. We continue to encourage folks that if you make a payment for your child's school lunch to write a check, if you don't use the online system, sending cash in hand with kids to school is not the preferred method for a variety of reasons, but checks are  are a better option to send with your child to school if it's if it's an option for your family. And then there is the online payment method as well.  We've noticed that there's been some issues with the online payment method in terms of the length of time it takes to post to an account as much as seven days or more. And so we're working with them to figure out what the issue is there. That's not on the school district's  end of things.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: That's on the software end of things. But I know that families have experienced that. So they, you know, they may end up with a debt letter after they've put

[10252-237] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-02-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: I'd be just making an educated guess if I answered that right now. So let me look into that specifically for you. Okay. I don't want to misspeak.
TEXT> Sounds great. You know, piggybacking on Rob's comment. One of the things that because I think that's personally, I think just having done,  I don't know how many thousands of hours of lunch duties, that's my suspicion is that's where the problem is. It's the power age. It's the the ice cream cones. And, you know, the solution. One of the solutions may be, is to put the expensive  drinks back in a vending machine so that the kids have to go over to the vending machine to buy it. It would be interesting to know what what it is that are  that the high debtors are actually buying. It's causing the debt to be high because I'm guessing I'm guessing it's those a la carte.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Items was just lunch when we looked at it last year. Most of it was just lunch. They were driving some of these balances up.

[10252-254] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; superintendent search committee mem | 2019-02-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: But the line starts here. You do not pass go to go until you fit. Whether you think you qualify or not, you fill the form and then you are free to enter.
TEXT> I like it. I don't think many people would like it though. I like it. Well, I was just going to say, is it possible to drill down a date on when we can,  when we need to make a termination if we're going to renew or not? I think it's important that we start thinking about that if there's a specific date. And also, I think it would be good for my kids request if we  figure out if if the lunches are even still as good as they were when we first started somehow, because I know that there's been a lot of talk about the declining quality of lunching as, as, compared to when they first started.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Let me look into that as well. I know d we had to sort of get some baseline things cleaned up, and then she wanted to be in, in the

[10252-289] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-02-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: administrative leave of lead of region one to act on our behalf as the administrative leave for region one IDM, and further authorizes them to enter into contracts, receive and distribute funds, and perform all other actions required as the administrative lead for region one.
TEXT> So what this basically does is allows  allows the Claremont School District to be a partner with id n region one, so that then we can apply for grant funding through them to fund some of our programs, particularly targeted to our Medicaid eligible population, which is a fair number of our students, plus the larger population as they relate to mental and social and emotional health. And so we would like to partner with and region one to provide additional training and support and resources for supporting our students who have experienced trauma, supporting the emotional and behavioral needs for our students and things of that nature. So this is because they are a government entity. They have to require certain paperwork in order to be able to to partner and be, in agreement of membership. And so I'm asking you tonight to authorize  that. And it would just it requires, a board vote to agree to that. And then just the signature of Frank and myself.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I move that we authorize the partnership or whatever you want to call it with this idea in region one network.

[10252-293] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-02-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Is this process going to eventually help us, get more teachers on board for where we have a deficit and in that type of teaching?
TEXT> That's a great question. I would anticipate that it would more likely provide us access to a greater number of counselors and mental health professionals to support our students, instead of actual teaching staff.  I think more in the related services area. It could also provide training for our teachers and teaching staff and could provide,  curriculum resources and things of that nature. My my guess is it probably wouldn't fund full on teachers, but more likely it would fund some of those ancillary services that our kids so badly need, need.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: And it would be a big asset in our population right now.

[10252-295] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-02-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: And it would be a big asset in our population right now.
TEXT> So yeah, in region one spans from southern,  Grafton County, Dartmouth-Hitchcock  all the way down to Keene. And so we happen to be smack dab in the middle of the region. And it's just a,  a network that brings a lot of folks together. So, West Central Behavioral Health, Southwestern Community Services, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Cheshire Medical Center in London Hospital, Newport Health Center, Valley regional hospital. There's a I mean, pretty much from what I can tell anybody, any agency in our region touching this population of folks in our kids are really involved in the process and trying to work collaboratively to provide more coherent services. You know, ultimately, we have fewer folks accessing emergency rooms and urgent care because they're getting the help that they need all along. So that's just an example. But that's really what the integration is designed to. Do you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Like to jessalyn? Yeah. Just to clarify and be clear, any dues or fees associated with the membership?

[10274-19] Jesse | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (first | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. I'll second that Mike again. All those in favor? Aye. Sorry, Jessie. Okay.
TEXT> Sorry. So, March 6th, 2019 for Stevens High School. First, I have the class of 2019 senior play, which will be superheroes. It's going to be  going to be held right down the hall at the Teal Lantern. And the show dates are as follows. Thursday, March 14th and 15th and 16th. So Friday and Saturday is while we'll be 6 p.m. dinner and then performance with dessert being served during intermission. And Sunday, March 17th will be a 1 p.m. luncheon, with the show following and dessert at the same time during intermission.  Seating will be limited because it's at the Teal Lantern and tickets are going to be $15 at the door. S music will be hosting its music at our Schools Month concert on March 21st, in the Stevens High School auditorium, and admittance to that event is free. Sophomores who opted to take the SAT had the opportunity to do so this morning in order to prepare for the Saturday, which will be coming up in their junior year.  There will be a friend of music meeting next Wednesday, March 13th from 7 to 8 p.m. in the music room, and SHC students will be taking the Youth Risk Behavior Survey on March 20th  for the technical center.
NEXT> Jesse: The tech Center just concluded a logo competition for students to design a new center logo. We're and they're still in the process of reviewing those submissions. Mr. Bennett from

[10274-20] Jesse | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (first | 2019-03-06
PREV> Jesse: coming up in their junior year. There will be a friend of music meeting next Wednesday, March 13th from 7 to 8 p.m. in the music room, and SHC students will be taking the Youth Risk Behavior Survey on March 20th for the technical center.
TEXT> The tech Center just concluded a logo competition for students to design a new center logo. We're and they're still in the process of reviewing those submissions. Mr. Bennett from carpentry and Mr. Craig, I think from HVAC and plumbing are attending and getting certified in lead paint removal.  This is being paid for through a grant received from habitat for humanity. After the training, the teachers will include what they have learned in the curriculum for  our students. Chef K and her culinary students assisted Arrowhead with their pancake breakfast. It was a huge success and the students did a great job in running the kitchen. This past Monday night, March 4th, the culinary students prepared the advertisers for the superintendent candidate meet and greet, and I believe that they're also going to be helping out with the senior play  dinner. That will be provided as well. And dessert  for the middle school.  The eighth grade will be going on a trip to Keene State College on March 8th, and this trip is sponsored by Gear Up. Over the next several months, CMS will be very busy with the eighth graders, encouraging them to think about future goals using activities and interest inventories on the college and career platform Navy,  which we use up at the high school as well.
NEXT> Jesse: CMS eighth graders also will be thinking about and selecting their courses for high school coming up here, and there will be more information and specific dates about that provided

[10274-31] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Superintendents report.
TEXT> Good evening. To tack on the end of Jesse's report regarding Maple Avenue. I came this evening straight from the Maple Avenue Art show at  Valley Regional Hospital. And there was a very warm,  welcome from Valley Regional Hospital. They had refreshments and balloons hosting our families and our student artists there this evening, so that was lovely to see. It is. Student. I want you to butcher this, but it's student Art month, and,  there are lots of activities planned across the schools related to art and the amazing things that our students have done with art, so that's exciting. In addition to that, my my comments tonight are brief and really just focused on next week. We have March 12th as a no school day for students because it is school Election Day. And so my, thoughts this evening are just for folks to get out and vote next Tuesday the 12th at your polling places. Wards one and two vote at Claremont Middle School, Ward three votes at Disney Art Elementary School. And  I think all of the candidates who are running for school board positions this year, it's a thankless job. Most of the time. So I appreciate you taking on that responsibility. And  I hope we get a good turnout to next week with large numbers for for the school district vote on March 12th.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Supposed to be a nice sunny day.

[10274-39] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: So I just wrote that down to see if that's. Yeah, there's.
TEXT> There's two up there now. Or at least that's what I was working on, before I drove over here.  But Valley Regional, actually they had a, they had staff taking photographs. And so they will be sharing those with the school district just to confirm that any of the students represented in the photographs have permission to be photographed and share that out. My the photos I took had no students in them, just the artwork. And so once that is available, then those pictures can be posted as well. But  bluff I know had artwork at Valley Regional Hospital in years past and  maples artwork is there right now. So it's just it's a really nice opportunity, to be able to see our students presented in a really positive light. I know that that's the topic that came up earlier this week in the different forms that we had for candidates.  How do we message all of the positive things that our schools and our school districts and our students are doing and the artwork that we can display at public places, such as the hospital is just one of those one of those ways that we accomplished that. So it was lovely.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: To see. I think it's a very terrific program. It takes me a while to walk from the front of the hospital down for X-rays and blood work. So I

[10274-41] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: very terrific program. It takes me a while to walk from the front of the hospital down for X-rays and blood work. So I love to stand there and look at all the individual pictures and see their names, and I appreciate that very much.
TEXT> They're very colorful. And also the artwork this year,  it was done by fifth graders. And then there's some compilation pieces done by more students. And there's also a, a three dimensional aspect,  as there are  acrobats hanging from  the ceiling in addition to the artwork on the wall. So I encourage anyone to go check it out. You don't have to be sick to go to the hospital. And it's a great display of our students and what they're capable of.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. If you are sick or physical therapy as I was, I was on the getting work done by the therapist, looking up that student work on the ceiling

[10274-43] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: on the getting work done by the therapist, looking up that student work on the ceiling panels above, you know, so it's good to stop there. Thank you. Citizens. Comments. Seeing none, we'll close citizens comments. Moving on to discussion. Action items. Acceptance of donations.
TEXT> We have two. One of them is a formal acceptance. The other one is just informal thresholds. So the first is, a local company called Women Designers Concepts. They they do business with concepts and service solutions. I think in the Upper Valley they have donated some office furniture to our accounting program. The approximate value of the furniture is $3,000. Is currently upstairs in this building. And, just waiting to figure out how to configure setting it up. But it's great condition. It provides, ample opportunity for our students. So we're very appreciative to have that donation from Tree Concepts and Surface Solutions. And then the donation of a smaller dollar value, but not a smaller impact is the Polish American Citizens Club has donated $360. This will support three students whose families are financially struggling and unable to pay the class. Jews for the CMS eighth grade class trip to Boston this year, so we're very appreciative of the Polish American Citizens Club and their sponsors sponsorship of students to participate in their class trip.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I'd like to make a motion to accept the generous donation of office furniture for the accounting program, and also say thank you to the Polish American Citizens Club for

[10274-132] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (former Claremo | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you.
TEXT> So the next proposal, one of the things that we talked about using the building more for the summer and also proposing that we, market or  show our talents a little bit more often. A lot of CTE centers offer summer programs for kids. We'd like to start one this year with two of our programs, particular culinary and carpentry. A couple of the obstacles we're facing is to pay for the salary for the teachers there. And I think we talked about that a little bit, Carolyn. But I think with this program, we can offset some of those costs. And miss LeClaire and I are looking at other opportunities. One of the things I'd like to do is keep the costs low for folks, for students, for we're looking for those students going in the sixth, seventh and eighth grade. It would be just for one week from 830 to 1230. Every day they would be in the culinary program. And the plan is that they would go through and learn different skills that we baking, cooking  a little around the kitchen. And then at the end of the week, there'll be a culmination of celebration where we invite the parents and they can have lunch that's prepared by the kids  and the carpentry.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We have really identified very many projects yet, but we'd probably do something along the lines of a doghouse. Depending on the skill set of the students, it may start

[10274-133] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (former Claremo | 2019-03-06
PREV> Alex Herzog: and learn different skills that we baking, cooking a little around the kitchen. And then at the end of the week, there'll be a culmination of celebration where we invite the parents and they can have lunch that's prepared by the kids and the carpentry.
TEXT> We have really identified very many projects yet, but we'd probably do something along the lines of a doghouse. Depending on the skill set of the students, it may start off with keychain or a little key holders or something to that effect, but it would get them into the tech center. It would get them a little notoriety, get us a little notoriety. Let them know that once they're in the middle school, they know what this building is all about. And I think it's just a win win in that situation, too. But that's just a proposal right now. So we're doing we've got to look at the finances on a little bit closer before we're go with that. But I just wanted to throw that out to the boards that they knew what was going on.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Michelle. And then Mike.

[10274-140] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Vice Chair | 2019-03-06
PREV> Jason Benware: To me when I.
TEXT> I look for something for my kids to do during the summer. It's a lot of programs drop off at that age of 12 or 13. So that 13, 14, 15th May be a spot that you could actually hit some kids that don't have anything to do, because I know my 13 year old daughter, you know, there's a gap there where I'd like her to do something for half day, a couple days a week. But, you know, a lot of those summer programs drop off at 12, 13. My daughter can be home alone, but that turns into a lot of TV time.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I think that's a great idea. It's something we explored. But I want to get this started first and get this off the ground. And then next summer or in

[10274-159] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (former Claremo | 2019-03-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: I think that's terrific.
TEXT> So if we can make that happen. We'll do it. Sometimes it's hard to pull these students out that are working currently in the summer to come in and give up a week for the camp, so it'll really depend on the student.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We're getting over our time on this. So, Jason, this last question.

[10274-182] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: There we go.
TEXT> Is this on? Can you hear me? Yes. You can see the children with, Doctor Alex. Who gives who provided a tour? They went through culinary, they went through some of the other classrooms, and the kids absolutely enjoyed it. And you can see by the look on Alex's face, he thoroughly enjoyed it as well. Back in 20 1516, we were one of eight other districts that were flagged by the Department of Education for not making significant enough significant progress with children's social emotional development. And so at that point, the state invited us to participate in becoming an ice social school. And so at that time, it was Chris Beso,  and he agreed to be part of the state systematic improvement plan. And with that came a series of, action items that provided coaching for teachers, provided $10,000 in support for materials  and leadership, specialized professional and development, and a host of other things. So you can see on this slide the impact of what happens when a child starts school and they're not reading at the appropriate level. It's pretty significant.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: But you can also see below that even more significant is when a child starts school and they're not ready socially and behaviorally. Those children do worse than kids who

[10274-183] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: $10,000 in support for materials and leadership, specialized professional and development, and a host of other things. So you can see on this slide the impact of what happens when a child starts school and they're not reading at the appropriate level. It's pretty significant.
TEXT> But you can also see below that even more significant is when a child starts school and they're not ready socially and behaviorally. Those children do worse than kids who start kindergarten, not knowing their letters and their numbers. And so that's why the state said, okay, we're really going to take a look at this social emotional piece because of these numbers here, 80% of kids who aren't socially and behaviorally ready for kindergarten are more likely to require special education. That's very expensive. They are 80% more likely to be retained. Again, that's very expensive. And they're also more likely to be suspended or expelled. The skills look pretty basic, but we're always amazed at  how intentional we have to be when we teach these skills to three and four year old children. Things like getting along, following directions, being able to regulate emotion. What do you do when you're so angry? And maybe you don't have words, but what can you do instead of hurting the person who's next to you? We teach the children to recognize, oh, that's a problem. What are some solutions so that they can start thinking about solutions? At the same time they're able to identify what is a problem. We also work a lot with persisting on tasks. So if you start something, the goal is for you to stay with it until you finish it, as opposed to going from one thing to another without completing.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: We do a lot of social conversations, cooperative play, helping children interpret other other children's behaviors and emotions, and feeling good about oneself and others doing a lot of perspective

[10274-184] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: able to identify what is a problem. We also work a lot with persisting on tasks. So if you start something, the goal is for you to stay with it until you finish it, as opposed to going from one thing to another without completing.
TEXT> We do a lot of social conversations, cooperative play, helping children interpret other other children's behaviors and emotions, and feeling good about oneself and others doing a lot of perspective taking because often young children know how they feel, but they don't have regard about how somebody else feels. So we do a lot of things like, how do you think that makes so-and-so feel? How would you like it if somebody stepped on your foot or whatever the behavior, just to, to get them thinking beyond themselves? So we went through a series of changes, in 20 1617, that's when the preschool moved to the CTE, and they were still persistent challenges with staffing. And the children still were not making the progress to the extent the state wanted them to make. And that's when the staffing plan changed. That's when Chris B so, hired me and said, we're going to do things differently. This administrative pattern is not effective. We need a director who can supervise the teaching staff, but we also need a preschool coordinator to handle all of the case management. So when I came on board, I had to hire 40% of the staff because there was that level of turnover.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: We also spent the first year doing a lot of training, as well as action plans that the teachers helped write, writing behavioral expectations not only for the children, but

[10274-185] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: We need a director who can supervise the teaching staff, but we also need a preschool coordinator to handle all of the case management. So when I came on board, I had to hire 40% of the staff because there was that level of turnover.
TEXT> We also spent the first year doing a lot of training,  as well as action plans that the teachers helped write, writing behavioral expectations not only for the children, but also for the stuff. And so this was a very long process.  And this year the process continues. And this year we've also implemented the creative curriculum. So it's a standard curriculum that's being used in all of the preschool classrooms. So we went from being tagged in 20 1516 as a very low performing school. Now our goal for next year is to become a model demonstration school. We have made that much progress and the state is often talking about us. Bless you. The state is often talking about us as a model program. We were mentioned recently in the Rand report, the Rand study that included us because of the gains we have made. Based on data reported to the Department of Ed, there was a follow up news story about that that featured our program. Whenever anybody has come in to visit preschool, they have always complimented the staff and how seamlessly our service providers are working with the children in the classroom. All of the services are pushed in, so at any time you will see children, you don't know who's identified, who's on an IEP and who's not, but they're all receiving services.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: This reduces the number of kids who end up needing IEPs because they're getting services without any identification, and it's highly effective. We also are very involved in the community.

[10274-186] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: how seamlessly our service providers are working with the children in the classroom. All of the services are pushed in, so at any time you will see children, you don't know who's identified, who's on an IEP and who's not, but they're all receiving services.
TEXT> This reduces the number of kids who end up needing IEPs because they're getting services without any identification, and it's highly effective. We also are very involved in the community. We have monthly family events where the parents come in.  We have monthly weekly playgroups. We communicate with parents through class dojo  as well as email. We have conferences, we offer training. We are involved with promoting 1000 books before kindergarten to promote that early literacy. If families don't take the kids to the library, that's okay. We record which books were reading to the kids so that the children can still get credit and get those goodies, which typically are book bags and free books from the local library.  We also collaborate with pathways. They do a morning playgroup for children birth through three services at provided right on in our sensory room,  and it's just fabulous. It also allows us to have eyes on children before they're referred to us. So we're building that nice pathway where we are building relationships very early. Our impact we serve up to 72 children in the center.  Based on current kindergarten enrollment, approximately 23% of the kids who are in kindergarten this year attended our preschool last year. So that's a pretty significant number. We have wonderful opportunities to help get kids ready. We go to the community center. That's our kids in the pool. That's Judy, one of our teachers in the library.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: So transitioning to kindergarten, the children's cumulative file begins in preschool. We do a lot of data collection. We do it not just for our kids on IEPs, but also

[10274-187] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: in kindergarten this year attended our preschool last year. So that's a pretty significant number. We have wonderful opportunities to help get kids ready. We go to the community center. That's our kids in the pool. That's Judy, one of our teachers in the library.
TEXT> So transitioning to kindergarten, the children's cumulative file begins in preschool. We do a lot of data collection. We do it not just for our kids on IEPs, but also for our typically developing students. When it's time to have the transition meetings with the with the receiving teachers, there are no surprises. We know these children, we know them well. And so we're able to say with confidence. This is a great child. Here's what supports our highly effective. And these are some things you want to not do.  And that helps quite a bit with those transitions. And you have handouts about the different checklists and assessments that we use. I'm not going to read that to you. The effectiveness of our model. We have achieved the the goals that were laid out for us by the state. So one thing that the program had trouble with originally was that, the the children on IEPs didn't have access to a least restricted environment, which means being in a classroom with typically developing peers. Well, all of our classrooms, our early childhood classrooms, that means 50% of the kids are typically developing and 50% of the kids are on IEPs.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: But all children have services. And we have a wait list, which is great. We have a program director. That would be me and a special education coordinator, which we

[10274-189] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: earlier we can provide supports the greater the outcome. So when we look at the evidence, the the data that we get from the coaching, when we look at the waitlist, the action plan, our low staff turnover rate last year, only one person left.
TEXT> That's a far cry different from when I came on board. We had we were not out of compliance with Doe, which is wonderful. I also implemented a work climate survey last year to see how it was going for everybody, because the training was so intense across the board.  And on a scale of 1 to 4 for being perfect, one being, let's look for someplace else to work. We averaged 3.5 both last year and this year. So I think that is a very positive work climate. Also in the handout you'll see some data on the children who went through preschool and how they did with the kindergarten screening tool. And the screening tool is in your handout as well. And again, this is important, but this was all before we implemented the creative curriculum. And while it's important, the bigger piece is how are these kids doing socially emotionally in the classroom. That's really what we want to look at. In addition to the screening results. We've been very fortunate in that we have been able to get grants, and that was one of the things I used to do when I was a college professor is write a lot of grants.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: The need here also allows me to continue that. And I want to draw your attention to this last one here that's listed as requested. It's building trades and preschool

[10274-190] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: to look at. In addition to the screening results. We've been very fortunate in that we have been able to get grants, and that was one of the things I used to do when I was a college professor is write a lot of grants.
TEXT> The need here also allows me to continue that.  And I want to draw your attention to this last one here that's listed as requested. It's building trades and preschool play. I got notified just a few days ago that we were awarded that grant. So $23,159 was awarded. Corey will be getting an official letter in about two weeks. And the purpose of that is so that Alex's wonderful students  can build playground material for my students. This way they're giving back to the community. What they're doing is being recognized and being used and is publicly visible. So it's just a wonderful opportunity for collaborating that's benefiting, both programs. So here's a picture of some of the things we were able to do with grants. This is the sensory room. Again, it's used for the children in preschool, but it's also used for a community play group as well as a playgroup with pathways. This is a track path which is also wheelchair accessible. And this is just one small area of the playground, the front of the playground, which is a much larger space. That's where the new equipment will go that Alex's students are going to make. Here's our partners, our CTE partners. In the demographics.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: So again, if we want to change the demographics and we want kids to have better outcomes, it all starts in preschool. We're doing what we can to make that

[10274-195] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; superintendent search committee mem | 2019-03-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: Once I stop coughing?
TEXT> I just had a silly one. So I was wondering about the screening process and what that might look like. Like, are you going to have, you know, the kids come in for a day for the screening and then you have your teachers administer the grant? Brigance or is it going to be one. Person that is during. Or how thoughts on that.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: So the Bergen's it will be it will be used as a screening tool. So when a child. Is. Referred to the program.

[10274-200] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: A team and what screens. And you're not using a screening tool now, what methods of screenings have you used to this point? I guess I'm just wondering.
TEXT> So the one we're using now is only used for identified kids, and it's the Mullen, which isn't that great. And so we're going with the Brickyard so that we can have data on all the kids.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I know I'm super in. Those are really great idea. And what you mentioned in our that I have.

[10274-211] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: paraprofessionals. And then we also have our therapists. So we have a certified occupational therapist assistant. We have a speech and language soon to be certified assistant. And we have our speech and language pathologist who, does our school and some other schools as well.
TEXT> So you had talked about the, the this being a method by which we could reduce identification for special end in a beginning. So I wasn't sure on that because it sounds like the kids already are identified. Half of them are and half are or unidentified. They're model kids.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: So and so what I meant by that is that children come in as typical or identified, but many of the kids who come in as typical benefit greatly from

[10274-212] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: the, the this being a method by which we could reduce identification for special end in a beginning. So I wasn't sure on that because it sounds like the kids already are identified. Half of them are and half are or unidentified. They're model kids.
TEXT> So  and so what I meant by that is that children come in as typical or identified, but many of the kids who come in as typical benefit greatly from receiving extra speech and language support or ot support if they didn't go to preschool and get that additional boost ten hours a week. I'm pretty sure  that without that, when they went to kindergarten, they would end up being identified and needing an IEP.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We just have to be really careful about that though, right? Because there are requirements by law based on how many typical you can have in a classroom versus kids,

[10274-227] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-03-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: So not all of the preschoolers are eligible for the program.
TEXT> So I have one last question. So we were cited by the state for being out of compliance that related to the students who had IEPs. Not either students. Correct?
NEXT> Diane Edwards: Yes. And so at that time, we weren't an early childhood model. We were considered a self-contained model. And that means more than 50% of the children were on I.

[10274-228] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: So I have one last question. So we were cited by the state for being out of compliance that related to the students who had IEPs. Not either students. Correct?
TEXT> Yes. And so at that time, we weren't an early childhood model. We were considered a self-contained model. And that means more than 50% of the children were on I.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So yes, pertaining to the kids were identified, but.

[10274-229] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: Yes. And so at that time, we weren't an early childhood model. We were considered a self-contained model. And that means more than 50% of the children were on I.
TEXT> So yes, pertaining to the kids were identified, but.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: That's who the program was serving.

[10274-258] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (final regular meeting before March 2019 | 2019-03-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: I just.
TEXT> Had a well, you usually ask questions after having questions. I just have a couple questions for on is it so is that sent out to all of the,  online folks? That  is there a letter that's drafted that says this is available if you're interested or does it go home with the kids in the backpacks?  I just kind of wondering how it's getting relayed related out. As beautiful as great job is when I make sure it gets out to the especially the parents and the children, because this shows how wonderful things are improving, especially over the last three years.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It hasn't been distributed via backpacks or to students, but I can look into how we can make that happen. It, my recommendation would not be to distribute via backpacks

[10274-285] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (final regular meeting before March 2019 | 2019-03-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: Claremont School District memorabilia, so I know you're involved with them. So maybe you can look into that and let us know what they currently have. And then maybe if there's something specific they're looking for, if we have duplicates, we could certainly discuss that.
TEXT> Okay.  Looks great off in that. If they want to do that because we're trying to plan a symptom with the homecoming this year. And the other thing about that was I asked about a document, if we could send it like,  it was a just a information flier. And I haven't received that yet.  However, do you do with the election whether I'm here or not after? I just wanted to kind of keep that in everybody's ears that,  you know, the Struggle Society program and how, you know, they'd like to reach a reach children more and get the children involved. And, you know, something that we're going to start really working on. So  with the alumni being part of it, and then, of course, you know, trying to get,  that so  if not elected to come back. Then  I just want to make sure before I go  that, that historical that we talked about just being able to, have a letter be sent out with the, Regular email that goes out to all the parents and stuff.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And I was supposed to send you the flier distribution policy, which I didn't do, but I'm doing right now, so you'll have that, so I apologize. That's all right.

[10274-288] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Food service contract.
TEXT> At our last meeting, when we were looking at the financials in terms of the student lunch debt, the question came up around the contract. It's the time of year for you as a board  to decide if you want to continue with the current contract, or make any sort of changes. So I'll talk just briefly and then largely turn it over to Mike, because he has much more information about this than I do. One of the things I've learned is the contract is, almost completely dictated by USDA federal guidelines. And,  our contract that you see in front of you,  the, the components that we actually can change in that are minimal. It's the budget and things of that nature. It's not the language in those contracts. Those are all predetermined. And we just fill in our few pieces. I can speak specifically to what additional pieces we fill in, but but it's largely out of our control.  One of the questions that I know came up, it might have been at the last meeting or at a previous meeting was what about the la carte options and how can we address those? So I reached out to the Department of Ed. Catherine Hodges is the individual at the department of editor who manages all of the contracts, and, Indicated that.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: If we're looking to, make a change to something like the a la carte options, if it's a substantive change, then we potentially would have to redo an RFP. So

[10274-305] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Vice Chair | 2019-03-06
PREV> Jason Benware: Mean, I like.
TEXT> That. You're not going to get the kids. I mean, it's it's a nice, healthy lunch. You're providing adequate. Food and healthy food. But I think you do away with the debt problem.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: My thoughts kind of piggybacking on what Rebecca said, that, if we if we. In my mind, I'm still going to having done 10,000 lunch duties, probably, I think that,

[10274-306] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-03-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: That. You're not going to get the kids. I mean, it's it's a nice, healthy lunch. You're providing adequate. Food and healthy food. But I think you do away with the debt problem.
TEXT> My thoughts kind of piggybacking on what Rebecca said, that, if we if we. In my mind, I'm still going to having done 10,000 lunch duties, probably, I think that, the cart in the fact that the, the waters and the, the power aids and such, they're selling them and we're paying for it. The kids are drinking it. I think if we were to say, okay, no more vending machines, we're going to take the vending machines back. No more ice cream. We're going to put vending machines in for that, and we're going to get the money. In my mind, that's a substantive change to the contract, because I think that they they  planned on they plan on that when they make their bid that we can sell  so many Power eights and they're selling them at a good profit. I mean, if you  even if you went to Walmart and bought them for what they're selling them for, you're probably going to double or triple.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So this is the exact language from the state. If you decide to change provisions significantly within a renewal option, that would have caused the vendor to have issued a

[10274-316] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-06
PREV> Jason Benware: I'm somewhat in support of Mike's idea. You know, I think that if you want to simplify things and reduce cost. Provide people with a, An adequate lunch, but, you know, not the bells and whistles. It's not a bad idea. Just something to consider.
TEXT> I wanted to hear from our student rep as to he's graduating this year. He said four years, and he could probably give us a firsthand comparison as to how you think the program is going. And you've listened to our discussions, so you're well aware of what's going on. What would be your opinion?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Well.

[10274-373] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (final regular meeting before March 2019 | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Holy mackerel. So this we'll have we'll have to hopefully have them here next time.
TEXT> Michelle  I just wanted to  do I on this on your nuclear lunch bag thing. It's going to be a cost on both sides. So how do we know when the children who do get do not get?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I don't even feel like we need to worry about it right now. Honestly, Michelle, because that's not something implementing anytime soon.

[10274-385] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Let's move on to future agenda items.
TEXT> So  for future agenda items, if time permits in the 20th we'll do the high ready midyear discussion. And then one of the things that we are struggling with, with the impact of full year kindergarten is, something that actually came up earlier this evening in the preschool presentation is  our our data collection at the beginning of kindergarten is  much more anecdotal and developmentally appropriate for those students. Then something that's highly sophisticated that we see with some of our older students. So we have piloted using I already, for instance, with our kindergarten students, and we're using it more than we have in the past. But  having the, hard evidence or the hard data for that young of a children is challenging. So in terms of the impact of that, we're looking more at older grade levels and how students are  performing on, for instance, third grade, I already assessments  those who had full day kindergarten and those who didn't. Instead of looking at kindergarten data specifically. So it's just taken a little creativity to think about how do we actually measure the impact of full day kindergarten? Beyond the really positive anecdotal reports that we've gotten from first and second grade teachers? And so that might be a presentation that happens a little bit later as we can get.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Sort of working around some of those instant hurdles to figure out what are some good, solid, reliable, and repeatable ways to measure the impact of full day kindergarten. So,

[10294-87] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (self-identif | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Representative.
TEXT> Report everyone. For those newly elected members of the school board. My name is Prescott Herzog. I'm one of the two school board representatives from Stephens High School.  I'm a sophomore, and I have here some information about all of our schools in the district,  in Claremont. So,  for the update for Stephens High School is the youth risk Behavior survey was given today to all students during a 60 minute advisory period. Students who opted out of the survey were in the auditorium during that time.  29 students will be leaving for the Washington, D.C., trip on 8th April first for five days, including a stop in New York City at the nine over 11 Memorial on the way home.  Our Thursday, our concert this Thursday is this Thursday?  March 21st in the auditorium. We will also be performing in the large group festival at Bow High School on Saturday, March 23rd  at 130 and 330. And youth and government students have been practicing running bills through committee. They went to pre on March 16th and will go to their overnight trip on March 5th and sixth.  We have students serving as Chairman of committees, co-chairs of committees and President pro tempore of the Senate.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Other students are also serving in the press corps as lobbyists and legislators at the sugar River Valley Technical Center. The culinary program at the tech provided 300 dinners over

[10294-88] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (self-identif | 2019-03-20
PREV> Prescott Herzog: students have been practicing running bills through committee. They went to pre on March 16th and will go to their overnight trip on March 5th and sixth. We have students serving as Chairman of committees, co-chairs of committees and President pro tempore of the Senate.
TEXT> Other students are also serving in the press corps as lobbyists and legislators at the sugar River Valley Technical Center.  The culinary program at the tech provided 300 dinners over four days. At last week's dinner theater program, in collaboration with Stevens High School Theater program, a number of the students in the culinary program helped create the meal under chef, encouraging supervision. And also, the Tech Center on Sunday hosted a visit from New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio. The roundtable discussion was focused on the opioid epidemic in America at Claremont Middle School. Finding our stride and new running club is starting in April. Coach Alyssa with lead the club starting March. I mean sorry. Monday, April 8th. Practices will be Monday and Wednesdays from 230 to 430, and the club is open to all grades. Also, the National Geographic Society is pleased to announce that Aiden Goodrich, a seventh grade student from Claremont Middle School, has qualified to advance to the New Hampshire state level of the geography be on March 29th  after winning the CMS. B Aidan's geography skills were tested again at all other school champions in the state, where he scored in the top 100.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: The principal says congratulations and way to show that Eagle Pride from Desert Elementary School. They were celebrating Doctor Seuss's birthday and read Across America Week. Students have been working

[10294-145] Sean Wadsworth | Bowling coach, Stevens High School (self-identified 'I'm Sean Wadswort | 2019-03-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: They want to see it on TV.
TEXT> Oh, Alexis. Call it. Sorry. Bryson. Wyman.  Wow. Thanks. Who is that again? Bryce Weymouth. Wait a minute, wait a minute.  Matt. Zealand galaxy. These kids are just killing my name. Clayton Wadsworth. I  can get that one correctly. My JV assistant coach, Jim March, and I'm Sean Wadsworth.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So how many years ago was it that you and I.

[10294-151] Sean Wadsworth | Bowling coach, Stevens High School (self-identified 'I'm Sean Wadswort | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: It's bowling, so it's near and dear.
TEXT> We've been runner up two other times, 2008 and 2012, 12 and 16,  2012, 2016. The good thing was, by winning this year, we beat Keene, who had everybody's number all year long. They just we knew at the beginning of that was the team that we were going to have to be, through the whole year. It's kind of funny because a couple of the kids that were on the team in 2016 when we lost to Keene, their siblings were on the team this year, which was kind of a cool thing where Sean Fitzpatrick junior was on the team in 16. Ian Fitzpatrick was on the team  this year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It was not here.

[10294-167] Sean Wadsworth | Bowling coach, Stevens High School (self-identified 'I'm Sean Wadswort | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Thanks.
TEXT> We will be coming to the board looking for because we're going to be looking for some donations. We're going to be buying getting jackets for all the the kids all the students.  Also we're looking to do rings. We've got quotes on both of those. I have a couple of people that are looking to, give fairly substantial donations to take care of it. I have one gentleman that wants to do all the jackets  on his own, which is about $980, so he wants to do that, and then we're going to we've got the rings kind of designed. We're working on that now. And then we'll know what the price is for that. So we'll be coming back to you for that, or at least how that works.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is it so that there's an account that's been opened up at the. Well, we were going to.

[10294-180] Sean Wadsworth | Bowling coach, Stevens High School (self-identified 'I'm Sean Wadswort | 2019-03-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Oh, good. I'm so happy about that.
TEXT> So it seems it's funny because we put the post out and we're getting lots of interest in it, and it's not going to be a lot of money considering what the football team had to go. But the football team at that time had the bird gang, but we don't have that any longer at the high school, so we have to kind of do it individual. But the kids are pretty excited about it, trying to get it all done and.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Very proud.

[10294-191] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Okay. Acceptance of donations on the anticipated revenue wiped. Open up a public hearing.
TEXT> No, you don't have to open up a public hearing this evening. We need to schedule a public hearing for a future meeting.  And then I have a couple things. So there's two things for which we need to schedule a public hearing. Because the size of the,  amount. And then there's one that we can accept this evening. And Mike can speak more clearly to the RSA. 198 colon 20 B the notice of the public hearing and the requirement for that. So first I'll start with this. What I consider the more simple one is, the Stevens High School Spirit team has received a donation in the amount of $3,000 from the Jack and Dorothy Byrne Foundation. I understand, that this needs to be approved by the board. And so,  the  funds are for,  in the past, they've used them to help purchase new uniforms for competition, paid for students to attend the UK summer camp.  And then,  some other things to support the, the team specifically. So  the Jack and Dorothy Byrne Foundation, as you've probably noticed, supports the Claremont School District extensively. And we are very grateful to  that particular foundation and what they offer  for our students and the opportunities that they allow our students to have that they otherwise would not be able to have. So this funding is for the spirit team at the Stevens High School. And on behalf of Jennifer Ferland, I'd like to request that we accept that donation.
NEXT> Jason Benware: To accept the donation from the Byrne Foundation for this team. Team second.

[10294-293] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Bryn: are one grade level below, it'll give them a different number to reach for than it would for a student who is on grade level. Their typical growth is the average growth. So that's the growth that we want to see in a typical student.
TEXT> And then there's a stretch growth. And it's just that it has two purposes really. The first purpose is to give students who are on or above grade level that extra push to get them to to go a little bit farther.  And this stretch growth. And the other purpose is to give students who are below grade level, the goal to get them closer to grade level. So it really serves two purposes. So this year. This is a new report for I ready. It's showing the district growth  from fall to winter. So the first half of the year that 75% that you see there  is the average growth for the district. So it could mean that there's students that have made more than 75% of their goal. Or it could be that they have less. And that's the average for the district. You'll see the, the typical growth. You'll see that 41% of our students across the district have reached their goal already. And this is as of January.  So I think that's pretty great for halfway through the year. And for the stretch growth, we have 17% of our students who have reached their stretch growth goal. So above and beyond what was expected. For their questions.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I'll wait till the end.

[10294-316] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: So surprised. Yeah.
TEXT> So this is for reading. This is what our triangle looks like. And I like to focus really on the percentages. And in the gray  is where we were in the fall. So when the gray we had 32% of our students who were at risk tier three. And now it's only, it's gone down to 24%. So we've made some good growth there. Tier two, we were at 36% in the fall, and now we are at 29%. Again, that's a really good growth. And tier one, we want that number to go up. 32% of our students were in tier one in reading, and now we're almost at 50%. This is broken down by grade. So this is one through five, that 75% that we saw on the first slide for the district, this is just broken down by grade level. So we're at the median growth is 67% for first grade  all the way down. You can see the median progress for those grades. And then the next column it tells you what percentage of students have reached their goal already. So first grade 27% of our first graders have met their goal. 50% of third graders have met their goal already. And then the stretch growth and it goes and it goes over.  I like the last column. That's the percentage of students who have improved their placement. We really want them to be improving regardless of where they're at on the trajectory.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And I yeah, I, I so in grade three we show 99% of shown progress. It just simply means they've moved up. Yes, yes. Okay. Thank you.

[10294-335] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Exactly what I was thinking.
TEXT> Hence grade doesn't have that report and I, I looked into it. They don't they don't have it. But I do have some data to show how they were in a fall versus how they were in January, ninth and 10th grade. So you can in its color coded, ninth grade, 33% in the fall were red, 40% were red in tier three for, January. And you can see the numbers. I don't need to read that to you, but moving on to math, it's going to have the same looking reports 52% is our median progress towards typical growth for math across the district? Not as high as reading, but still in the 50% range. 27% of our students have reached their goal already in math. And again, that 32% in less than 19. That means that we, you know, they have some extra work to do. Our tier triangles. So 26% were in tier one at the beginning of the year, 40%. So we jumped from 26 to 40% and half of a year. Who were in tier one. And again, our other numbers went down. Yeah, the tier two, not so much. But tier one went down pretty much for under 20% now, which is in the grand scheme of our kids. That's not very many students. Yes. Heather.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Can you explain what the tears actually are telling us as far as where they are? Yeah. You are, of course, tier one proficient or.

[10294-389] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Oh, okay.
TEXT> Just I guess a question when we talk  about the seventh grade was, what did the  sixth grade I ready testing last year look like? And was there an indication from the  sixth grade testing last year that we would see this kind of result for seventh grade? Because obviously these kids were in sixth grade last year. Yeah. And if indeed it did not indicate that, then yeah, we really need to figure out what on earth happened in the last year. Yeah. If we had low test scores and we had low, low, progress last year, then we could certainly see there's a reason or at least a correlation. But if we don't see that correlation, then we really have to figure out what on earth is going on. Yeah.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So I can look at.

[10294-397] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: I know that there are certain children that just aren't quality test takers. Does this take any provisions for children like that?
TEXT> So  yeah, it does. They have the opportunity to earn points. It's kind of like a video game almost.  They earn points throughout their, they're their tests and their lessons,  and they get to, in the middle of their test. Stop them. They can take a brain break and play a little game on there. So it kind of releases that anxiety a little bit. I think it's also helpful that the kids are so used to it at this point that they know what to expect. I think that's helpful. There's training videos that they can watch if the teacher chooses to do that. So I think there's a lot of it's very appealing to kids.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's a computer adaptive assessment, meaning that it it asks harder questions or easier questions. A child is getting approximately half of them correct and half of them wrong. And

[10294-403] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Bryn: And we can kind of have conversations with students and say, you know, what was going on here? Because I know you know how to do this. But it's also really important for teachers to be actively proctoring to make sure that that's not happening.
TEXT> Jason, I also think it's important that the the lower grade levels to that, the teacher really explains to the kids the nature of the test and how it works.  Yeah. Because my little guy got very frustrated the first time he took it because it just kept asking him questions and they kept getting harder. And he didn't understand that that was a good thing. And so he kept at it and he kept with it. But it really bothered him. Because nobody said it's going to get tougher and tougher until he can't do it anymore. Yeah. So I think that's information that these kids really need.
NEXT> Bryn: To.

[10294-408] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Bryn: That is good feedback.
TEXT> I looked into the question a minute ago. What did sixth grade look like last year compared to this year? So one of the things to  consider is sixth grade. Last year in reading, we had, in the winter we had 35% of students on or above grade level. So if you look for placement distribution for seventh grade in the winter, you have 42% of our students on or above grade level. So it's that's not that different. We didn't have the typical and stretch growth charts last year. To be able to compare that. This is one of the new features to say this is typical growth courses stretch growth. And if you remember back to the beginning of Britain's presentation, she said, she said that last year, there was this it was a one page chart. You figured out where your grade level was or where your score was at the beginning of the year, and that would predict what your growth should be. And it was the same for everybody who started there. Now, we have the typical growth versus stretch growth. So they have a different growth model that they're using. So we I can't compare apples to apples for that particular. Data set.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Other questions.

[10294-413] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: ago when we were first looking at things like this, new Hampshire is a tiny state. New Hampshire had their own standards, and a lot of the time what we were teaching in New Hampshire didn't necessarily match the standardized assessments that we were giving.
TEXT> So there was often a disconnect between what our internal assessments might have said and what external assessments might have said. Those are much more aligned now. And we've done a lot of curriculum work in the last several years to align that better, to ensure that what we're measuring our students on as what we're teaching them. But there's more alignment to still do there. But I would not be surprised to see a similar result on  our state assessments as well.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: All right.

[10294-470] Unidentified | Abbey Group regional manager (name heard as 'Jasa'/'Jace'/'Jason'; not | 2019-03-20
PREV> Jason Benware: I guess I can running out of the food that was on the menu. How is that. So if somebody wanted to get say, pizza that day and, and you ran out early or, or pasta or something like that.
TEXT> So it's, it's like if you go to a restaurant for dinner and you go in and they're special that night, it's prime rib. You go in at 9:00 and they say, I'm sorry, sir, we're out of prime rib. Oh, I really came here for the prime rib, but you're not really going to leave. You're going to order something else. So we try to to make sure that we have enough hot meals for every student that we think will participate, but we can't manufacture a hot meal for every student. We'd be throwing food away. Right hand over.
NEXT> Deb Belanger: And we try to forecast.

[10294-472] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; re-elected vice chair this meeting | 2019-03-20
PREV> Deb Belanger: And we try to forecast.
TEXT> So I'm just wondering if there's a way to better plan for  that, because these are kids whose parents are picking out their meals, you know, online and via the menu that we see.  And that's what we're planning on our kids eating that day. And that's what they picked out. And had they known that they weren't going to get the spaghetti and meatballs, then they might not have chosen to get the hot lunch for the day. Like, I know my daughter has type one diabetes recently diagnosed, so if I'm putting her in for the menu on a spaghetti and meatballs and that's what I want her to get, I don't want her to not be able to access that and then have to choose something else. Otherwise I would just send it from home. So I think we just need to make sure we improve.
NEXT> Deb Belanger: Right.

[10294-482] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah, it might be a pain in the butt to have to go, you know, individualize for everything. But it sounds like that might be a way to,
TEXT> I think we also want to keep in mind. The impact of doing that. And so you could have a scenario where, you know, when a kindergarten and a first grade classroom, it takes ten minutes to figure out what every kid wants to eat for lunch and lost ten minutes of instruction for the for the possibility that one of those kids might not get the exact meal they want for a month. So you have to weigh that too.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: But it sounds like you guys have that happening some in some schools already. It sounds to be helpful.

[10294-494] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair; re-elected chair this meeting | 2019-03-20
PREV> Unidentified: batched, cooked. We really have moved away from processed foods, so our salad bars are in every one of your sites, and we're hoping that we continue to develop our menus so that the food is cooked fresh and and homemade as much as possible.
TEXT> I'm going to ask you a question.  Do you have everyone email all of the all of the clients email the kids. Do you have their emails?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes, yes, yes.

[10294-578] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (director of business and finance) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Michael O'Neill: we went out, we put an RFP out, we got some quotes on school busses. We decided we were going to buy two additional propane busses. The 2020s models had some enhancements that we were interested in getting easy a cabin space, easy to operate.
TEXT> So we waited till the 2020s came out. Now we're at a point where we're ready to lease these busses in order to lease the busses, the school board is going to, basically put a resolution in place. Two, two reasons. One, that they will pay for the busses and it's been approved by the the voters. And two who can sign for the school on the bus lease is the other thing the board has to determine. So what you have in front of you is a resolution. It's not any different than any other resolution we do when we do a capital lease. It's basically just, agreeing with the again, with the funding and with the fact that somebody can sign on behalf of the school board.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Sign for it.

[10294-580] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (director of business and finance) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: Sign for it.
TEXT> But basically you authorize somebody at the you could authorize Corey could authorize me basically to sign the documents on behalf of the Sioux.  And as you can see in front of you, the, the under number two is the authorize individual goes. And then is this the signature of secretary, board chairman or other member of the governing body and then a signature, one additional person who can witness passage, this resolution, which might be Josh because he's on the other person here. I'm sorry. So I got you in that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I could fill one of these out.

[10294-601] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: You want? Yeah.
TEXT> Go ahead. Be it resolved by the governing body of obliged as follows one. Determination of need. The Governing Body of obliges has determined that a true and very real need exists for the acquisition of the equipment described on exhibit A of the government obligation contract dated as of March 1st, 2019, between Claremont School District Oblige and Tax Exempt Leasing Corp. oblige. Two approval and authorization. The governing governing body of Obliges has determined that the contract, substantially in the form presented to this meeting, is in the best interests of the oblige for the acquisition of such equipment, and the Governing Body hereby approves the entering into of the contract by the oblige, and hereby designates and authorizes the following person to execute and deliver the contract on obliges behalf with such changes thereto as such person deems appropriate, and any related documents, including any escrow agreement necessary to the consummation of the transaction contemplated by the contract authorized individual. And that would be Mike O'Neill. Michael O'Neill. Number three. Adoption of resolution. The signatures below from the designated individuals from the Governing Body of the oblige for  evidence the adoption by the Governing Body of this resolution signed and I assume that signed by Frank the chairman and and then she's going to a test by Rebecca Zulu.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: I second that whole thing.

[10294-692] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's one of the things about this time of year, is it? There's some so much testing going on. Sure. And there's a lot and it just it can be really be overload in the spring. Having been a testing coordinator, there's a lot.
TEXT> With the alternative. Then be including some of these questions into the family school climate survey questions because it sounds like for some of these family school questions, they're going to have to talk to the child anyway. I  should not be answering whether or not my student feels safe at school. I should be asking my child that. So could we incorporate some of those questions to the family side?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, my student feels safe at school, is there?

[10294-694] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well, my student feels safe at school, is there?
TEXT> I know, that's what I'm saying. I shouldn't be able to answer that for my child. I should be going to my child. Do you feel safe at school  if I'm doing my job as a parent? So I'm saying, should we at least incorporate some of these? I don't care whether or not my kid like school, but it would be nice to know that they feel safe at school. Or this the students treat each other well. Some of those questions seem pretty important.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: There's an adult at my school who will help me if I need it.

[10294-702] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Jason Benware: Yeah. Can you just have this this conversation with the family one as a family? That's what I'm saying.
TEXT> Some of these, I feel like these are important, that a child should have the right to answer that. You know, I feel safe sharing my feelings with teachers at school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Independent of the parent.

[10294-705] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; re-elected vice chair this meeting | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: we cherry pick some of these? I and then to your point, if they're already doing a test when they go to turn in their test at the end, can they just a circle these 3 or 4 real quick? Give us some quick feedback.
TEXT> I'm actually with you on this one. I thought I in the very beginning like I, I, I don't think that too many kids are like I would love to see how many kids actually fill it out last year, but I still think it's so important to at least distribute it, especially for the kids who.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: I get that.

[10294-719] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; re-elected vice chair this meeting | 2019-03-20
PREV> Jason Benware: Versus just circling?
TEXT> Depends on the student stuff.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But I mean we've got we've got some suggestions out here. So, if you want this to be done, I think Corey probably would make sure it got done. So

[10294-777] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (director of business and finance) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Jason Benware: 142,203 10.5. And then it says our encumbrance, we're still encumbered at 500, almost 592,000. Is that correct? Are we are we looking at having a shortfall of over $300,000 in our special education budget just for that one line?
TEXT> Well, yes and no. I mean, part of that is the fact that we've been, as we've been saying all along, we've been unable to hire employees. So in some cases we're forced to hire contracted services. So for example, I mean, there's a 20 different ways you can sort this report.  So when I started it by by object code, which is the salaries, the benefits, I have $400,000 left in salaries and $700,000 left in benefits. Part of that is being paid for through  outside services right now, because we're unable to find qualified people to fill some of the needs of these children. So what I do this time of the year, and I've met with all the department heads over the past week and and people to  have them look at what's encumbered, because what happens is they encumbered a lot at the beginning of the year sometimes if they don't need. So instead of me just closing purchase orders, I meet with them all. So they've all been studying that. So they're going to all come back with the responses. And Leslie is a new person doing it at the SA. And what I do is I look at the relationship, I say, okay, well, with three quarters of the way through the year, we should be three quarters of the way spent through that encumbrance.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: But if it's half and half, I say, wait a minute, that doesn't make sense to me. What happens is two things we either over encumber or we don't properly

[10294-841] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Because there may be other there may be other things that we want to form committees. In fact, of full year kindergarten at a one funding spring, creating an ongoing.
TEXT> They are ongoing. Quite frankly, the BC and D really have to do with I don't have the capacity to pull those forward for you right now. Impact of full year kindergarten. Bryn has been working on that. The challenge is  lack of data. So when we had half day kindergarten, we didn't do, assessments the way we do them now. And even what we've talked about in terms of what we do for assessments now, it came up recently with the kindergarten screening assessments. And what do we use? Is it in-house? Is it something specific? We talked about the Bergens. So we're continually improving. I actually have a, email out to the superintendents list serve to ask how other districts are measuring the impact of full day kindergarten, to see if we can generate any ideas  that way. We looked at second or third. I forget which grade level scores for those students who had full day kindergarten versus those who didn't. Not a statistically significant difference. So, we also thought about asking first grade teachers, what have you noticed? We've had a significant amount of turnover in first grade teachers, so they don't have that comparison. So for the full day kindergarten presentation, we are struggling to find legitimate data to share with you to say what the impact of full day kindergarten is.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we're continuing to work on that. It's tentatively on here for April. I don't know that will have it in time for, you know, April. But it's it's not

[10294-852] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Mary Woodman: Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> So I didn't want you to think that we're just kicking that down the can, kicking the can down the street, whatever that saying is. We're working on it, but just haven't found anything. To. That is for value for your time  at this point. Yeah. We do have some other agenda items for the April 3rd meeting already that are brewing. So, one of which should be a memorandum of understanding between the Claremont School District and the Claremont Police Department. Just what is our working relationship back and forth? It,  they are fabulous supporters of the Claremont School District. This is just a process to formalize that relationship a little bit more than we have now. The administrators had a training on Monday evening. We had our legal counsel there, and we also had both our SRO, Crystal Simons and Chief Mark Chase, at the meeting talking about student investigations. How should they be conducted, what are the pitfalls? Who's responsible for what component of that? We ran through different scenarios, and it was it was awesome to have not only our administrative team in the room, but also to have the police department represented.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we can be very clear about how to handle delicate situations to have the best outcomes for kids. So we have a wonderful working relationship with them, and it

[10304-123] Mimi | Public commenter, Stevens High School employee (ASR 'Mimi, rise for on | 2019-03-25
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: And I believe that brings us up to date with all of our minutes. So we're we're good. Okay. Now, I would like to invite any citizens who have comments to please come up and state your name and let us know what you're thinking.
TEXT> Hi, guys. Mimi, rise for one. So I got a long time no see. I work at the high school. Just full disclosure before I started my comments.  I'm. Here to talk about our lunch program a little bit, because I know there have been some concerns, I guess, raised by at least the Claremont board and also board about the school lunch program, the quality, how it's running, etc. I can't speak to how it's run because I don't know that I eat school lunch every day, every day because I like school lunch. And so I'm in the lunch line with the kids every day. So I see the kids who get the hot meal. And for some of these kids, it's the only hot meal they get. You know, it is. Sometimes they get pop tarts on their way to school, they get home and it's it's, you know, whatever is in the fridge. Or it might be remarkable. Also hot, but not like, like, you know, full on hot meal. I know there have been some questions about, you know,  how it tastes and if kids enjoy it. And I think it's important to remember there are federal guidelines with what can go into school lunch. So they have to use whole grain things.
NEXT> Mimi: So sometimes the spaghetti is extra grainy, as I call it, but it doesn't mean it's not good. And again, the salad bar is just phenomenal. They do a great

[10304-126] Mimi | Public commenter, Stevens High School employee (ASR 'Mimi, rise for on | 2019-03-25
PREV> Unidentified: These these.
TEXT> Things are pretty good because they make parchment chips.  For the, you know, for lunches sometimes.  And I just, I, you know, I understand there have been issues. I'm not disagreeing with that at all.  I'm not. But it's also only year two of this program. So I think giving it time to grow a little bit. And I think keeping the hot lunch program is essential to allow our kids in our district to continue to thrive the way they have been and they can we hopefully continue have them thrive, because having a hot lunch in their bellies, a good way for them to get them through their school day, that's all.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[10304-244] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (answers Zullo's contact question [355-35 | 2019-03-25
PREV> Cory LeClair: the average there is $2.33 per account. That's the bulk of our accounts only. Oh, an average of $2.33 868 of those accounts are free students, 105 of those accounts are reduced to students, and 854 of those accounts are students in full pay status.
TEXT> There are 64 accounts that owe a total of $15,162.30, so the average of those 64 accounts is $236.91 per student.  So the bulk of our student population owes, on average, very little. It's a small population of our total student population  that owes a significant  amount. Ten of those students are considered free, three are reduced, and 51 of those students are in full paid status. Two accounts right now? Oh, more than $500. However, one of those will be credited because they should have been identified as free via a direct certification process with the state since the beginning of the year. But that wasn't there was a different last name scenario, so it didn't pop up on the right arm.  So of those 64 accounts, 15 of them, oh, between 3 and $400. 23 of them. Oh, between 2 and $300 and 24 of them. Oh, between 1 and $200.  So one of the other responsibilities. I don't know what just happened with my computer. One of the other responsibilities of this position is contacting all of those families, establishing payment plans with families, having conversations with those families to ensure that their status is still accurate if it's changed  or not, then addressing those issues, if they have changed,  and digging in to determine.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Not only that, we have school lunch debt, but why do we have school lunch debt and being able to address more of the root cause issues? So beyond ensuring

[10304-268] Rebecca Zullo | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont; Claremont School Board Vice Chair) (cha | 2019-03-25
PREV> Cory LeClair: So all things that I have brought up to Abbey groups, tension, they are concerns and they the expectation is that they are being addressed by the Abbey group because those are not necessarily school district within the school district purview, those concerns.
TEXT> Okay. So I will just direct everybody to D. And then I think it's also important to mention that we did learn at our Claremont meeting that parents can call in and, and put a note on their kids account that they don't want to have. They don't want their kids to have all the cart, which I think is important because I still see conversations going on in regard to a la carte and all of that. So parents can be proactive. I think it's just important to mention that again.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Jason.

[10304-270] Jason Benware | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont) (chair: 'comments on the minutes ... Ja | 2019-03-25
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Jason.
TEXT> Just a quick question. Does anybody know when the kid walks up there and they punch their number in? Right. Does a picture of the kid come up on the screen?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Most of the time, as long as there's a picture of the student in the system, the picture does pop up on the screen.

[10304-271] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (answers Zullo's contact question [355-35 | 2019-03-25
PREV> Jason Benware: Just a quick question. Does anybody know when the kid walks up there and they punch their number in? Right. Does a picture of the kid come up on the screen?
TEXT> Most of the time, as long as there's a picture of the student in the system, the picture does pop up on the screen.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So curious about.

[10310-82] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report [105-111]; | 2019-04-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: event of the kicks off of very busy the rest of the year. With everything else that comes after us still, even after all these years, I hear them. Here we go. Here we go again. So. Thank you. Very good. All right. Superintendents report.
TEXT> I'm keeping it very brief tonight because we have a full agenda. I just would like to highlight and say. Thank you to. The folks from Dartmouth College who support our Manchester Museum trip. This will be the third year that our elementary students have been able to go to the  Shire.  And I should know the exact fraternity that sponsors this from Dartmouth.  It's a Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity at Dartmouth.  And so they host the event, they rent the museum. They engage with our students  and engage our students in the different,  exhibits at the museum. Our students then have pizza and get a slew  of, brand new books at the end that have been collected and donated by the the college students. And it's something that where  students are selected who,  somewhat randomly, but also try to try to invite students who otherwise wouldn't have the opportunity to go to the mansion  in any other capacity. And then we take a bus up with our kiddos for 530 start. And just to say thank you to that organization for their involvement with our schools. And then the the last piece is April is kindergarten registration month. So I know that ads are going in the newspaper. And Jessie mentioned it briefly, but, any child who turns five by September 30th, 2019 is is eligible to register for kindergarten.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So please contact your neighborhood school and register for kindergarten. And there are some other steps to that which, excuse me, can be found on the website or in the

[10310-138] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member (Jason Benware, Heather Whitney or Rob Lov | 2019-04-03
PREV> Katya: They were very.
TEXT> Packing days where everybody came and the kids learned what to pack.  And it was a transformative experience for all that attention. And you're I don't know how you do it.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So based upon that glowing review.

[10310-258] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report [105-111]; | 2019-04-03
PREV> Michael Petrin: You do?
TEXT> Well, I think so. And one of the things that I'd like to suggest we add to that agenda is, a partnership between the city of Claremont and the Claremont School District through their parks. And by that Maple Avenue abuts the Moody Park. And there's some potential grant funding available through Student Conservation Association and some other sources to build a bridge between  Maple Avenue and Moody Park so our students can access Moody Park for outdoor learning and outdoor education without traveling through communities or on streets or anything like that they can access directly from the school property. So I'd like to add that as an agenda topic for the joint meeting so that both bodies can discuss and hopefully agree to that. And I think that will just begin to pave the way for additional partnerships with the city to support outdoor education for our students and alternative learning environments for our students that are more engaging. For all of our kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Anything else? For the good of the order?

[10310-278] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (reports superintendent contract neg | 2019-04-03
PREV> Cory LeClair: There's a high likelihood that that person is watching and will message us here in a moment. But yes, I will.
TEXT> Okay. And the last thing is, I got the permission slip for Sophia, the kids to take the, student survey at school. And I was wondering if that's different from last year because I don't remember any of my.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Kids administer the student survey.

[10330-41] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'This is the clear' [8]; gives su | 2019-04-17
PREV> Jason Benware: I'd like to make a motion to seal the minutes for 76 years. I second that.
TEXT> And it was bustling with activity this time of year.  The Claremont Youth Baseball Softball Association is in full swing with many teams down there. And we also had high school and middle school teams practicing. And so the spring sports season is in full swing.  Vacation is next week for all Claremont School District kiddos. And so there are, I know, some vacation camps being offered by different organizations around the community,  but there will be no school for students next week. This time of year, with the weather being nicer and able  to get outside. The fire drills start again. We tend to take a hiatus from those in the winter. And so you'll be seeing more students outside,  in groups. And so just know that most likely it's a scheduled drill and that's why they're outside.  Maple math night is tomorrow night. And so they're starting with a spaghetti dinner at 530, and then a math event for all Maple Avenue students.  And they had their big PTO raffle fundraiser recently. And I believe they're drawing the winners tomorrow night. So if any of you bought raffle tickets for the Maple Leaf PTO raffle.  Hopefully you're lucky enough to be the winner of one of those baskets.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And there are more spring events than I can name in a reasonable amount of time, so just make sure to be checking the city website for the calendar and

[10330-45] Alicia Seminole | Fourth grade teacher, Bluff Elementary School (self-identified 'Alicia | 2019-04-17
PREV> Cory LeClair: We have a Jones and Alicia Seminole, fourth grade teachers from Black Elementary here to do a brief presentation for you. About their request to attend their fourth grade field trip.
TEXT> We have prepared. And then it went off. Okay. So, Good evening. Good evening. Alicia. Seminole. Fourth grade law school. Zina Jones. And,  we're here to share with you our love for our trip that we go on every year to the White Mountains with our fourth graders.  The brainchild of Miss Jones, who has been leading this trip for 20 years. It was her idea, and,  she's been doing a wonderful job with it for 20 years. We're going in June.  And  we go for two days, and we go Thursday night. We we leave early in the morning, 645 in the morning. We we go all day and have fun at the flume.  We take kids up to Mount Washington on the railway, and we stay the night at Indian Head  Mountain Resort. And we had pizza and pools, party, pool fun. And the next day, we go up to the top of Cannon Mountain on a tram, and we go hiking and, then we go to lost River and the kids go through the caves. And because our New Hampshire curriculum, our curriculum provides that we teach about New Hampshire. We like to take kids to the places that they learn about. So we've put together a little PowerPoint. And, is there anything you'd like to add, Miss Jones, before PowerPoint?  We're good. I think. Cannon Mountain, too. Yeah. Yeah. On the tram. So, if you have any questions at the end, just let us know.
NEXT> Unidentified: So that's it? Very nice. As you can tell. We really.

[10330-56] Alicia Seminole | Fourth grade teacher, Bluff Elementary School (self-identified 'Alicia | 2019-04-17
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> And the bluff staff really pulls together. You know, it's all staff members who go on the trip. 12 of us are going this year. And, you know, just every single person is just willing to spend their time with the children of Claremont. And again, I can't say enough about Zina Jones. This was her brainchild from so long ago, and she's just always kept it going. It's not an easy thing to do.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[10330-96] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (votes 'Yes' right after clerk calls 'Ja | 2019-04-17
PREV> Unidentified: All right. Good.
TEXT> For perspectives sake, I just wanted to point out that if you if you do the math on it, the bulk of the money is owed by only about 3.5% of the population of the students in the school. So when you look at 67 out of 1875 kids, it's a very small percentage owing this. So this is not as someone to believe this widespread cancer. It's a it's a relatively small population creating the vast majority of this. Just just for perspective sake, it's obviously still a problem, but it's not a problem for a ton of people. It's a small group that that is sort of this is coming from. So I think that's important.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Right. So it's 52 students that are paid status, which means they need they would pay in full the 14 free or reduced. How are they accruing a debt if

[10330-98] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'This is the clear' [8]; gives su | 2019-04-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: are paid status, which means they need they would pay in full the 14 free or reduced. How are they accruing a debt if they're supposed to be free. Is that is that buying extra items. So that's free or reduced. Children that are buying.
TEXT> It's either buying extra items or they,  either  allowed the you have to reapply for free or reduced lunch every school year. It carries over for the first 30 days to ensure that the student status is in place at the start of the school year, so parents have time to complete that paperwork.  But after the first 30 days, that status lapses and  it doesn't get reestablished until new paperwork is completed and submitted. So  some of the debt accrued by students who are now eligible for free or reduced was accrued in that window after their last year eligibility lapsed, and this year, eligibility kicked in  based on the,  one that the parents submitted their application or it was accrued  by by students who didn't have any sort of status from last year. Maybe they were new to us this year or last year. They were full paid status and some change occurred within their financial structure. And now when they  finally did apply this year, they were eligible. So it's a matter of those students  had either a period of time when they were ineligible for free or reduced lunch, or they accrued,  debt through other means. So if you're free or reduced status, what is considered free or reduced is a single reimbursable meal that day. So anything beyond one single reimbursable meal does not fall into that free or reduced category.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: When I worked at the high school, one of the big scrambles is typically, I think it was before the first graduation practice that the scramble would take place. Exactly.

[10330-165] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'This is the clear' [8]; gives su | 2019-04-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Are you looking for a motion to a.
TEXT> Motion to approve this? And then I would have,  Frank, sign on behalf of  the board,  the agreement. And then I would sign as.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[10350-14] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by LeClair [2]; 'questions f | 2019-05-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: Can you are you able to speak to why? Which why? Certain buildings, have funds assigned to them and others do not.
TEXT> Direct funds were for Claremont. School District. They weren't specifically for any building. That assignment was what I did with the funds. Once we got them, it was for teacher laptops at Bluff Maple because they were in they were in the queue, but they didn't get funded. Last year when we asked for funds for computer replacement. So we utilize the E-Rate funds to to kind of move forward those replacements for the teacher laptops and also for some Chromebooks that were needed for the students. And then the rest of the funds were for  AV at the AV at bluff, because we were trying to get that done this year because that wasn't included in the budget for next year. But we have the other two elementary schools set up for AV improvements in their multi-purpose rooms, but not at bluff. So we're trying to get that done with the funds this year, but I'm not sure if that's still whatever. But  and then there's  server upgrades, so we haven't really budgeted for our servers. And most of our servers are in really rough shape right now.
NEXT> Unidentified: So basically it comes in one chunk and you divvy where it needs to be. Yeah. Yeah okay.

[10350-24] Unidentified | Member of the Merrow family (donor family of Paul Merrow bequest) | 2019-05-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: The microphone comes off the.
TEXT> Stevens High School and and he did think a lot of them. And he played, as you said, football and basketball and and very much active in the Athletics. And he also played in the band. So we  the family decided that we would like to give some money to the band  and the  arts department so that they can put on more shows. Yeah. My Uncle Paul was a  very dedicated to Stevens High School. He I don't think he missed too many of his class reunions. He always donated every year  to the alumni association. And he was very I mean, up until a couple years before he died, he was very adamant about making sure that Stevens High School was included in his thoughts even after he passed away. I just want to say that my uncle, because he was so  dedicated to the school, he made sure we were to. So. So it's carried in our blood to. Yeah. I can't thank you enough. It's  unbelievably generous. We  have headphones that we're using right now that, you know, I can't even hear.  And the division we play in is so competitive, one of the first things we're going to do is get some headphones so that we can actually hear each other  throughout the game,  but it'll, you know, the kids are going to benefit so much from, you know, this generous donation.
NEXT> Unidentified: I can't thank you enough on behalf of the coaches and the program in the school. It's it's amazing. Thank you very much.

[10350-25] Unidentified | Stevens High School football coach (name not stated) | 2019-05-01
PREV> Unidentified: is so competitive, one of the first things we're going to do is get some headphones so that we can actually hear each other throughout the game, but it'll, you know, the kids are going to benefit so much from, you know, this generous donation.
TEXT> I can't thank you enough on behalf of the coaches and the program in the school.  It's it's amazing. Thank you very much.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we would also ask, because of the.

[10350-79] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member, Michael Petrin or Rob Lovett Jr. (not sep | 2019-05-01
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Policies.
TEXT> We're going to continue from there under the individual goals, which will be page three for mine specifically. I can't speak for everyone's, but it said create investments balance studies needed in tax impact. It was actually balance student needs. Studies needed. And then Heather Whitney again. Her name is listed as Heather. Whiny.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Sorry. Heather. Sorry.

[10350-106] Unidentified | Student representative (Stevens High School; name not stated; refers t | 2019-05-01
PREV> Unidentified: Band participated in the Wind Invitational. That was today. I was there all day and they were able to witness university level performance and along with working with professional music directors, both of whom were composers of pieces that were playing at the upcoming concert.
TEXT> Which will be on May 23rd. I think I have that in here somewhere, but the Stevens High School prom is this Saturday, May 4th at 7 p.m., with the Grand March starting at 6 p.m.. It's being put on by the class of 2020, with the theme being Night of Enchantment, which is essentially a Harry Potter or Ball  theme. There will be a Friends of Music meeting on Wednesday, May 8th from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Music Room. The Stevens High School choir and musical theater classes will be attending music in the parks competition on Saturday, May 11th, and this day includes a competition with other schools in the morning and afternoon spent at Six Flags in Agawam, Massachusetts, and an evening award ceremony which is also held at the park. Representatives from the Stevens Youth and Government Group and Student Council. This is for Miss Lewis gave me. This will be coming  to report on their endeavors to the school board at the meeting on May 15th. I believe that she told me, the Stevens High School Musical theater and dancing choreography classes will be putting on their performance of The Lion King Junior  on the following dates.
NEXT> Unidentified: So we have Thursday, May 16th, Friday, May 17th and Saturday, May 18th at 7 p.m. and a Sunday showing May 19th at 2 p.m. currently listed. Tickets will be

[10350-245] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: opportunities to get together as a cohort on a monthly basis. So the seven different districts are getting together, talking about the work they're doing, talking about the barriers that they've come across, and really trying to work through some of the processes and programs.
TEXT> That's happening. So the system of care really, the work that's being done is taking a look at the activities and services that are taking place. I'll kind of hit on the, priorities here in a minute, but taking a look at the activities and services that are available within any given region. So you can imagine across the seven different regions, they have a different variety of services for students within that area. Further out from that, we're taking a look at the infrastructure that's there to support or not there to support the work. And then what policies affect that or impede growth and progress. So the things that we are taking a look at is promoting early childhood social and emotional development, making sure our students are ready and willing and able to learn when they're entering kindergarten, when they're entering preschool grade school, promoting mental health, emotional health and behavioral health as well. So what does that look like for our students and our families in the community? Also connecting more with families, schools and communities. How can we  be opening opening conversations, two way conversations with families, making sure that we're soliciting feedback in a way that's informing decisions that are being made and changing those as, as appropriate in regard to culture and climate as things change within our area.
NEXT> Trinity Early: What's that look like? So always kind of revisiting the ways in which we do things. Is it the needs of our community? The last piece is creating safe and

[10350-246] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: can we be opening opening conversations, two way conversations with families, making sure that we're soliciting feedback in a way that's informing decisions that are being made and changing those as, as appropriate in regard to culture and climate as things change within our area.
TEXT> What's that look like? So always kind of revisiting the ways in which we do things. Is it the needs of our community? The last piece is creating safe and violence free schools as well. Each of these are kind of big, broad umbrellas, and there's a lot that goes into, each of these pieces. And I'll go over what we've been doing recently. So there's a lot of dollars that can be put into training for staff, for community members, service providers within the community, teachers, students, bringing youth mental health first aid. We have a partnership with the New Hampshire Doe and West Central Behavioral Health as well  can come out to any area agency, any school, and provide youth mental health first aid to its staff to parties that might be interested in that. We're ramping up our trauma informed care and learning more about how trauma affects the learning and the the brain science of the students that are experiencing Trump  trauma at home, trauma within the community, and what that means for their learning.  We just recently had a conversations on culture and diversity. So again, I mentioned kind of, you know, how are we adjusting to an ever changing population?
NEXT> Trinity Early: How are we valuing their cultures, their values, and their belief systems in the work that we're doing? And also taking a look at mindfulness practices, yoga practices, things like

[10350-248] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: student, rank a really high score there just so that we can kind of, pay a little more attention to that student and start building in skills in maybe adapt learning and teaching a little bit, just knowing kind of where the kiddos coming from.
TEXT> The Youth Risk Behavior Survey is another piece that we're working on. Typically this is done at the high school level. We're now getting ready to do it at the middle school level as well. So a lot of the work that we're doing is with, substance misuse. When do students in kids start using marijuana, vaping, drugs, alcohol, all of that? The Youth Risk Behavior survey will essentially get to that, get hopefully some answers so that we can focus our prevention efforts in areas that make sense. For the Claremont Group in area, we're seeing an uptick in vaping, over the past few years because it doesn't smell. You can hide it a lot. It's different than the cigarette smoking back in the day. So that's something that's definitely kind of ticking up in that we're looking to address. Next year we are working on implementing Miss Kendra in all of the kindergarten classes in the fall. So this program is really focused on building empathy and coping skills. Within this will be with the kindergarten students. So essentially when they're coming through the door from the get go, learning how to talk about difficult situations, giving them the opportunity to do so, and the words and the support about who can you go to in a situation like this?
NEXT> Trinity Early: Newport has they just started this last year there. You're having amazing results, getting a lot of parent by in feedback. Parents are showing up to schools for events that

[10350-249] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: kindergarten students. So essentially when they're coming through the door from the get go, learning how to talk about difficult situations, giving them the opportunity to do so, and the words and the support about who can you go to in a situation like this?
TEXT> Newport has they just started this last year there. You're having amazing results, getting a lot of parent by in feedback. Parents are showing up to schools for events that they're holding as well. And at last time we talked with him,  nobody opted out of the program at all. They're finding a lot of value in it. So we're partnering with TLC, Family Resource Center and Melanie Williams there. She's a clinician. And then we'll also be training Paige McClay here within district to be deploying this within our kindergartners this upcoming year. So really good to see, school based therapy at bluff, Dessner and Maple. This essentially came out of asking, asking principals and counselors kind of what the need was, what they were seeing or not seeing for their students, and they were finding that a lot of students could benefit from getting one on one counseling and therapy, but weren't necessarily accessing the services outside at West Central Counseling Associates, things like that. It could have been for transportation reasons, stigma reasons, conflict with work, with parents, getting students to the appointments themselves, or just a hesitation about venturing down that road. And by bringing that to the schools. Up until now, it just it started last March. We've had over 30 students  accessing one on one counseling, within the school setting.
NEXT> Trinity Early: So typically they're they'll be pulled from the classroom, get to see the same clinician every week and start working through that. Our hope. So right now, the grant has

[10350-252] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: next few days? So that's just getting off the ground. Up and running. But we've had great, great response from the folks in town and cross cross agency partnerships to make this happen. So in the very early stages, but hopeful about what that means.
TEXT> Always working on community outreach and promotion of resources. So anything in regard to mental health, well-being, health, wellness, all of that. Anytime that we can share the word about what's going on. Constantly trying to promote or blend funds together to better support the work that's taking place. Something else that we're exploring is the Drug Free Communities Grant. So I mentioned the Youth Risk Behavior survey that's done at the high school. Part of that, piece is realizing that there isn't strong prevention work that's necessarily taking place in Claremont, or it's not as coordinated as it could be by applying for this grant. Down the line, what it would essentially do is, we would receive the funds so that we can essentially hire a coordinator for five years to be heavily focused on prevention. So taking we would focus on marijuana use alcohol and vaping and really focus on middle school age. What's that look like? What do they need as far as preventative measures, when and how are they starting and putting a lot of time and effort into hopefully preventing their early start and use of any of those drugs? And the community film series, we're always, typically showing on a kind of rotation, depending on availability, different screenings in regard to, screen time and screen use in regard to trauma, in regard to the hungry heart.
NEXT> Trinity Early: I believe is the opioid one. So drug use as well. Anything to bring out awareness to the community. We've been doing those lots of partnerships are being built. This

[10350-254] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: to plan and deliver supports and services that build on family identified strengths, needs. And the goal is to keep families and students here within their community to have them be productive and safe within that environment. So currently I'm going to jump through this.
TEXT> We have, two wrap coordinators, Caitlin and Kelly. They are specifically assigned to families within our school district  right now. Or up until this point, we've had 49 referrals so far received across the across the district. Referral typically looks like somebody that's having trouble being successful within school, is suffering from an emotional disorder that gets in the way of their learning, that impedes their everyday lives, impedes with their family structure, looks like, and really could just use some coordinated supports and services,  built around them. We have 16 youth and their families currently enrolled. The age range of the students that were directly serving are 5 to 17. And among those 16 families there's over 35 youths. So although we have 16 youth enrolled among their families, we have over 35 students that we're affecting and working with on a, you know, not a daily basis, but an ongoing basis to essentially build that foundation and that structure to help the families become more successful. With this grant phasing out in less than 18 months, the state is looking at a sustainability plan, and it's looking like switching over the Wrap coordinators would be funded through DHHS. So right now, what we're essentially doing is, Caitlin and Kelly are receiving all of the training, the skills, the critical time that essentially they'll walk out of here employable in this particular, in this particular field as a wrap coordinator.
NEXT> Trinity Early: And the goal is essentially to have fast forward wrap coordinators all over the state, and you would call the s, and then families would then be referred that way.

[10350-259] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: it, because I'm a huge fan of that. So that made my day. The second thing is what happens when the grant is gone. What happens to all of these programs that we're implementing now and all the good things that are going on with.
TEXT> Yeah. So through all of this, essentially trying to build systems, like Miss Kendra where  we're able to train internally. So like we're training page, for example, internally to be able to roll out Miss Kendra and hopes that she can continue to do so as part of her work. The Fast Forward coordinators are being taken on by DHHS as you know as well, so families within our area will still be receiving those supports and services. There's a lot of funding opportunities that come up, typically all in the forms of grants. So the Drug Free Communities grant, for example, is focusing on the drug prevention. It would bring in the Youth Risk Behavior Survey. They ask, you see, that is being brought in, is being wrapped into the overall kindergarten screening process. Essentially when  our staff goes away, if not sustained, that will be housed within each school as well to make those things going on. The one piece that does fall apart is kind of that, school connectedness, like, so that's something to be kind of looking for. I'm looking at grant funding essentially for my position moving forward. What's that look like? I was just at a meeting today. It was a community partners meeting with 40 plus people, area service providers and everything that is available.
NEXT> Trinity Early: It's a time for us to get together, but having the school at the table is important for our community and families. So that's something that I'll be looking at

[10350-263] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Carolyn Towle: No.
TEXT> So it's not a trigger per se. It's really just a benchmark of where the students are coming in. It's something that at least within our office, we've taken a look at. Oftentimes, some of the students that we see later referred for Fast Forward were those higher, higher scored children. It doesn't automatically, doesn't trigger a referral, doesn't trigger special ed or anything like that. So it's really just benchmarking. The other thing that we were taking a look is you can look through all of the surveys and find, you know, do we have a kindergarten that's coming in and they're really lacking coping skills? If so, what does that mean for the curriculum? Is there a way to embed that within some of the teaching that's already taking place. So that's really kind of what it's looking like.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Anyone else. Thank you. Thank you.

[10350-267] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'look to Mrs. LeClaire' [0], 'tel | 2019-05-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Transition to future agenda items and everything here. We've deferred to the fall.
TEXT> So we do have our May 15th meeting coming up. The start of the May 15th meeting will be the special procedural defect meeting. And then there will be a regular board meeting immediately following that.  And I know right now we I believe Jesse had a report from was it youth in government.
NEXT> Unidentified: And the student. Council.

[10350-307] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (opens hearings and meeting, runs agenda  | 2019-05-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: I took offense to that, by the way.
TEXT> Well, you were one of the youngest ones there. So but there were there was a very older crowd, and there were, there were people there from sunup, and they were from everywhere. They're all the communities in the greater Sullivan County district, but they're looking for engagement. And I think that that's a huge thing for young people to get involved with. Is, is school funding? There's no real easy answer to this. But the. Statistics on the the income we are the have the highest, fourth, highest income meet median income in the country. And one of the lowest tax burdens in the country as far as what people pay in taxes. So that was that was some of the takeaways. I'm going to share a date with you. All that I got. And I'm actually I'm actually going to go to this myself. On Tuesday, May 7th at 1:00, there's a Senate Finance Committee public hearing. And some of you I received an email about this today. I may have. I have from Tom and Charlene. Representatives Hall, second floor of the Senate House.  An opportunity to testify, which I will take. I'll. I am going to this. There's another opportunity Wednesday the eighth at 7:00 in Manchester. And I'm basically what I'm going to be talking about is the impact of having been dealing with budgets here for as a board member.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Now for my going on my fifth term, fifth year, sixth year. And what I see, see the effect of the taxes on the community. I had a conversation with

[10350-310] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (opens hearings and meeting, runs agenda  | 2019-05-01
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Yeah.
TEXT> It does when you look around at other communities. So there are there are some problems here based on our, our tax rate and  the and again, in the presentation last night, they showed the resources available sunup, for example, what they  can spend on their students and what their relative tax burden is for taxpayers compared to Claremont and Charlestown, which were the highest. So it's pretty interesting. I mean, it was it was a little bit of a rough presentation. And I have to say, it was kind of a rough crowd to for some of these folks, it was there are people asking some pretty, pretty tough questions and people getting off task and off topic. So but has there anything to add. To it?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: They also pointed out that how disruptive breaking up of source are. Yes. And the negative financial impact to the towns that that has and I think you're absolutely right.

[10350-314] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (opens hearings and meeting, runs agenda  | 2019-05-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: In.
TEXT> Particular brought up the fact that, can't understand why populations are going down yet. Budgets are going up. And there was a clearly a teacher there who responded  to that. Regarding, again, some of the conversations we had tonight around childhood trauma, what the the way some of the kids are coming into school and what that requires of the districts to  now, in terms of management and providing differentiated programing based on the needs of students compared to what they were 50 or 60 years ago.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So are.

[10358-38] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: from their homes. When I say the Claremont District office, I'll try to talk really fast. There's just so much information to slow myself down. But the Claremont District office actually covers about 16 towns. It's all of Sullivan County and then lower Grafton County.
TEXT> We have 12 district district offices throughout the state. So when we talk about Claremont, for the numbers, you'll see if you can read that. But  numbers wise it counts as the Claremont do. So not necessarily Claremont specifically. Just keep that in mind. It's kind of hard to pull numbers because it changes daily.  But I do want to talk to you all because,  like I said, with  the  opioid crisis and just the dynamics going on and the struggles that families are facing and the lack of resources,  children are being displaced from their homes at an alarming rate. Weekly, if not daily. Sometimes we're removing children and we're placing them out of district, out of our towns. And when I say, I mean out of all 16 of my towns, I just don't have any placements left. So I'm working really hard to recruit in my towns. But  we have several kids and,  Fitzwilliam in range in  Peterborough. We have children. We have a three year old boy who, because of severe neglect, is functioning at a nine month old level. And he's currently in a residential placement  because we don't have a home that's able to meet his needs. Which is heartbreaking. We need  specialized homes. I mean, we we need any foster home, but we really need homes that are trauma informed and homes that are able to take on these these kids that are have just had so much trauma and so much neglect.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: That they're really they're just so heightened and such, such a state that they, they can't even like come, come down to like, baseball to be able to go to

[10358-42] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: of them are with relatives. So sometimes when children come into care, we can, license relatives if they do pass a criminal background check, if the home checks out and everything sort of falls into place and they're appropriate and able to work with us.
TEXT> That doesn't always happen culturally. It's just sometimes we're not able to identify a relative, but we try really hard to because we know that it's best for children to stay with their families.  So we do have 13 kiddos that are currently with, with their relatives, 27 or with non relatives.  For our trial visit reunified. And that's a sibling group. That's so that's one sibling group that was recently.  They're almost at the 11 month mark out of a 12 month system where they've been returned to. Mom. I'm so in a lot of work. So we still have, a custody of them without going into too much detail of that, but. So they're home with mom now to see how that goes and see if she can maintain, doing what she needs to do to keep them home. Five were in a group home situation  and 11 are in an institution.  And I do want to talk a little bit about that. I'll try to be quick, but more specifically, I do. I want to raise awareness, but I also want to get you thinking, okay, because we have some specific needs. I have specific needs for my office and I can't do this by myself.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: Like I really can't. I need help. So if you guys can help in any way, that would be great. That little boy. I need a family for him. The

[10358-49] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: This is that is that.
TEXT> Yes. For a time, it's still I think it just changed. I just went to a training on it. I should know that. And I should have been prepared. I'm sorry. Have you guys seen the, the movie Instant Family? Has anyone seen that? Do you know what I'm talking about? Do you mind if I play this clip real quick? Oh, it might not work.  Okay. If not, maybe you look it up. It's. There's some language, but it's, It came out recently, and it's just a really, like. It was a really good movie. Some of us thought we'd bring our kids because,  you know, it it would teach them, like, show them what we do because, like, my kids don't understand, there's some language that was not a great idea, but it is really like, it's a it's heartwarming. It's like a good picture because unless you're you live it like I had no idea. No idea that this happened in my community. I had no idea how prevalent it was. I didn't know what the need was.  So to my. Why I'm here. Really,  it's my job. But I do feel like it's all of our jobs, right?
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: To me, when I see a kid, when we get an assessment on a kid, on a family, I always people think of. I like people in my work. They've

[10358-51] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: also looking to work here, but, so that I can't do there's a lot of things that I can do wherever I have a stack of fliers in my bag that wherever I go, if I go to the doctor's office, I hang one up.
TEXT> I literally pull over on the side of the road. And if I drive by a gas station and there's a  bulletin board there, I, I share on social media, I have, there's several adoption sites and foster care sites, that share like, heartwarming stories about adoption or about, you know, youth and, just supportive things about that. And, you know, good stories, even some hard stories, because it's it is hard. And some people go into wanting to adopt and sometimes kids get sent home and that's really hard to there's a lot of that and there's open discussion for that. But  oh, wait, can we go back up there? Sorry. So I made this list. I'll just go through that just to get you thinking about it. Okay. So do you think there might be something that you can do if you can't be a foster mom, there might be several things. Can you be a foster parent or do you know someone that can you might be thinking like, you know what, my aunt's. I was really upset. All of our kids are in college now.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: She's got that apartment over there. You know, where she's been saying she wanted to take. You know, she always had all the house that had all the kids over.

[10358-52] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: can't be a foster mom, there might be several things. Can you be a foster parent or do you know someone that can you might be thinking like, you know what, my aunt's. I was really upset. All of our kids are in college now.
TEXT> She's got that apartment over there. You know, where she's been saying she wanted to take. You know, she always had all the house that had all the kids over. You know, those type of people are great foster parents, especially for teens. A PC, a for a youth and care, a personal, caring adult. They don't have to be licensed, but there's a lot of youth who age, age out of the system purchase. Sometimes kids don't want to be adopted when they're older, so we try to set them up and help them get into college and get their apartment and stuff. But those kids also need somebody to call when they get a flat tire or when they have,  Thanksgiving dinner or Christmas and, you know, someone to just call and check in on them and see how they're doing. And so there's not like the legal,  binding piece to it. There's not the, the licensing and all of that that comes in. And it's not that every single day, but it's like just a somebody like it's it's somebody for someone to have. And so that you can be that people can be that you can. If you have a relationship with a kiddo, you can be that does it.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: You do have to have a background check. And it does become legal. We have you through the court system saying like, you are going to be there for this

[10358-78] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yes. When you say institutionalized, where are you talking about Project Mountain or somewhere?
TEXT> We have two littles,  a five year olds at Crotchet Mountain. We have, we have a bunch of kids at  Pine Haven. The two boys I was talking about are at Pine Haven.  We have Spaulding  Youth Center. They might be a small one or the other.  I don't Beckett. Sometimes I don't think anybody's there right now. Bennington. We have a couple of girls there.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So, Alan, what is crotchet Mountain? 200,000 a year.

[10358-114] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Increase percentage wise? Have you seen in foster care in the in the Claremont area, like our area specifically?
TEXT> I don't know percentage wise. I just know that I know it's been significant. When I, started here, we had probably,  30 homes. And so when we would take a kiddo into care, we would run down the list and call our homes and see who is available. And then we would place our kids in our communities. That's how it works. And since I've been in this position over two years now, I've never been able to do that.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Wow.

[10358-191] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: I would have guessed that though. That group, that age.
TEXT> It's really it's really concerning. So these are statistics that I'm getting through the city's thrive coalition. But more importantly, it's good. It's good to have the awareness. But what are we going to do about it. So they give like little snippets of what other communities are doing that are working to address this issue.  And one of them is Harford County in Maryland. I'll just read the Harford County Public School student board member, and you have a student board member here, is looking for students from each middle and high school, high school in Harford County to join him and other high school high schoolers to serve on the new Student Mental Health Council. Now, I don't know if this is anything you've been talking about, but having a student mental health council may be  an approach that you want to take. The council will be a group of students dedicated to promoting mental wellness and eliminating the stigma surrounding mental,  mental health and schools. The mental health specialist in the school system will provide guidance for the council, which will strive for each student to have access to support for stress, anxiety, depression, other mental health challenges students are facing each day and that is only one.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: I have several of the samples of things that other communities are doing across the nation to deal with, specifically with suicide, and I don't know what you're doing in

[10358-301] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Yes.
TEXT> So when when, Heather Whitney and I went over to Newport the other night, one of the, one of the topics that came up that kind of mystified people was the, at least in this area, there have been a lot of small, small districts that have spun off to create their own source.  And in this day and age, when we look across the river, how Vermont is dealing with some of their school funding issues, they're doing a lot of consolidation. So we have an opportunity in Claremont. We've got some major changes going on at the South.  And we've got some major changes going on with the city, with the new city manager, I just wanted to throw out the the topic of,  of starting to approach things from a larger scale, such as insurance, fuel purchasing, even certain administrative tasks, payroll, these types of things. If that's something that we should look at there, there are the naysayers to, school funding who say you why would we give you more money if you're just going to waste it?  And when people confront me with that, I can't say honestly, I don't think we can take any other any more programs away for the kids. I don't think we can do that. But are there other efficiencies we could look at? Absolutely. You bet.  And so I'm just wondering what the will of the board, the boards are to start having these conversations.
NEXT> Allen Damren: You mentioned fuel. I'd have to check, but for a number of years, the city always took the lead going out to the school district. And it was always a

[10374-1] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-05-15
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Sitting starting  at the far. My far right is Prescott Herzog. He's our student representative. Heather Whitney, board member. Rob Lovett, board member Carolyn Toll, board member. Mike Patron, board member and chair of the board. I'm Frank Sprague, chair of the Claremont Board, acting Superintendent Corey LeClaire, and our. District court clerk for this portion, Mary Woodman. And why we're here. Okay, we are here tonight. Due to. What do you need? Oh, you to. Okay.
NEXT> Unidentified: Now we do the rules and procedures for tonight's meeting. These rules and procedures will govern how the meeting is conducted. The person making a motion will be given five

[10374-9] Unidentified | School district moderator for the 5/15/2019 special district meeting ( | 2019-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: colon five. Therefore, the February 6th, 2019 and the March 12th, 2019 meetings were procedurally defective and invalid. This was brought to the attention of the Secretary's office by a concerned citizen. So the procedural defect, Okay. So that that is why we're here tonight.
TEXT> Thank you, Mr. Sprague. Is there anyone wishing to speak against this motion? Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of this motion? Seeing none, we will have a voice vote. Those in favor signify by saying I.  I oppose. Nay, the ayes have it. That concludes tonight's district meeting. On behalf of myself and the school district, I want to thank you for your attendance tonight and remind you that a regular school board meeting will immediately follow this meeting.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Thank you.

[10374-33] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-05-15
PREV> Carolyn Towle: My pleasure.
TEXT> It was, definitely worth worth it. And I would encourage other  people in the future to, if you can do it, if it's possible to try to make the time because it's a great opportunity to interact with some of the kids.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: The results. Of that were recorded by those who participated, and those are being, typed up so that they're legible by all and they will be shared with the school

[10374-40] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: That concludes my report. Okay.
TEXT> All right.  Citizens. Comments. Seeing none, I will close citizens comments and we'll transition to the report to our discussion action items. And the first is a discussion,  a report, I'm sorry, from student council and youth and government.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I see Miss Chastain in the audience. And I'm guessing that's why you're here. That's okay. That's that's where the the request came from this Lewis. So. Yeah. Perfect. If

[10374-41] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: All right. Citizens. Comments. Seeing none, I will close citizens comments and we'll transition to the report to our discussion action items. And the first is a discussion, a report, I'm sorry, from student council and youth and government.
TEXT> I see Miss Chastain in the audience. And I'm guessing that's why you're here. That's okay. That's that's where the the request came from this Lewis. So. Yeah.  Perfect. If you could please let us know how things went with youth in government. That'd be great.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: We have on. The overnight trip, and that was because we lost two students to DC and another one to sports. Part of the reason we only have three tonight

[10374-42] Ms. Chastain | Stevens High School youth-in-government and student council advisor (s | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: see Miss Chastain in the audience. And I'm guessing that's why you're here. That's okay. That's that's where the the request came from this Lewis. So. Yeah. Perfect. If you could please let us know how things went with youth in government. That'd be great.
TEXT> We have on. The overnight trip, and  that was because we lost two students to DC and another one to sports. Part of the reason we only have three tonight is because we have so many kids busy with the sports.  I've got multiple kids playing softball right now down to Veterans Park. We've got tech Week going on.  So they're all booked. These are, of course, our Cheevers, but we managed to get a few students to tell you about their experiences.  Some of the cool things that we had happen, we  had students elected to chair co-chair.  Let's see what else. Press corps. Lobbyists. Prescott was named a senator.  He ran very well for Senate President. I think the only reason he didn't win was because the other kid got to talk so long. But, one of the things that was, I think, unprecedented that we did this year.  I counted before we came in and we had 26 bills written and submitted to youth in government. And that's we've never done anything like that before.  We're actually thinking about the summer. We're going to have what we're calling a breakfast barbecue and bills to add to our breakfast, and bills where students will write more bills and rehab them so we can get an early jump.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: We have a lot of kids who are talking about wanting to get into more leadership positions next year as well. One of our students who happens to be here

[10374-43] Ms. Chastain | Stevens High School youth-in-government and student council advisor (s | 2019-05-15
PREV> Ms. Chastain: anything like that before. We're actually thinking about the summer. We're going to have what we're calling a breakfast barbecue and bills to add to our breakfast, and bills where students will write more bills and rehab them so we can get an early jump.
TEXT> We have a lot of kids who are talking about wanting to get into more leadership positions next year as well.  One of our students who happens to be here tonight,  Riley, had two bills read on the floor, which is not an easy task.  And both of them passed the floor. But I heard they got killed by the governor.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Yeah. They did. Okay.

[10374-47] Alicia Webster | Stevens High School student, student council (self-introduced [78]) | 2019-05-15
PREV> Riley: what? Different views and to collaborate with other people from other schools, from different regions. Even though both of my bills got vetoed, I'm still able to learn from what was wrong with my bill on the original part and to resubmit them next year.
TEXT> I'm Alicia Webster. I went on the D.C. trip so I wasn't. Able to go to the overnight stay, but I was able to go to the caucus, which elects,  positions. Yeah, positions.  And then I also went to pre legislation, and even though I wasn't officially a member of youth in government,  I was able to sit in at top and I  wrote a bunch of notes. So next year it'll be a lot more easier. And I was dive right into it. So yeah.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Hi, everyone. Prescott, I think you all know me by now. But I had I wrote for bills this year. Two all four of them made it to committee, to

[10374-76] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: Yeah.
TEXT> The legislative session is that kind of drawing to close. But as we start at the second legislative session. There's been a couple of topics of, students working in youth, in government on creating bills of their own, working with Senator Hennessy  and other senators in the state. There was drivers that reform that we were talking about with Senator Hennessy on increasing the funding for drivers in the state so that we can do it through the schools, not just through private enterprises. And I believe there was something about medical issues with Senator Sherman.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: Yeah, I know that one of our. Students in the difficulty for them to take classes because, I mean, I know I have students and these are probably among them

[10374-90] Unidentified | Unidentified - elementary educator addressed as 'Lisa' [143] who descr | 2019-05-15
PREV> Melissa Lewis: six week time in the winter to consider winter program activities. We're really looking to get kids out and moving. We've increased recess time. We've added an afternoon recess. It's important stuff. We're really excited about it. So, Lisa, did you want to add anything?
TEXT> Well, just, just from my experience, when I, when I worked in Windsor. We did this with our, with our kindergarten, and it was called Forest Fridays, and it was hugely successful. You know, behaviors on those days went down. Attendance went up. I mean, it was very motivating to the students. So I'm, I'm a big advocate for it and I'm really looking forward to it. I would echo that. We know that we have to get really creative about how to keep kids engaged, and some traditional methods don't always work for all children. And so we really see this as one more tool in our teachers toolkits to keep kids engaged, to get them excited about learning, and to really realize that learning can happen anywhere, not just in the classroom. So super excited. Certainly lots of questions, lots of what could this look like? And that's the purpose of the professional development. And we know we're we're all just in it together kind of learning as we go. So really exciting time for our elementary schools.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we'll share a few things. No one but good.

[10374-94] Lisa Holtz | Third grade teacher, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: B thinking about how you might want to volunteer participate.
TEXT> So I'm Lisa Holtz. I'm a third grade teacher at  Maple Ave Elementary,  and. This. Is three  H outdoor learning. So go ahead. Go ahead and click. Yep. This is fall of 2015. This is a picture of my students in Moody Park doing outdoor learning in 2015. I began this adventure in about 2014.  Okay.  And this is the same year. This was spring of 2016,  and this is a very special slide that I keep. We had a semi verbal third grade student that year, and he was reading about turtles in his reading class. This photo is at Saint Gordon's Blow Me down, Brook. Our student was the only child in the grade who noticed this animal. You can see when once it's a picture, you can really see that it's not a rock. It's a turtle. And we were all stepping around and there were three third grades with adults, and we were all stepping around and over and on this creature.  But this one student saw it and said, it has four legs  ahead and a tail. It is a turtle. Outdoor learning made a difference for that child.  We this is our.
NEXT> Lisa Holtz: We've had a stream table at Maple every year since 2015. A stream table simulates 3 to 4 miles of a river. We study erosion, stream anatomy, and ecology when

[10374-96] Lisa Holtz | Third grade teacher, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2019-05-15
PREV> Lisa Holtz: there's seven slides for you just to just we're we're writing, we're reading. We're snacking where I'm noticing. We're sitting by a campfire there. We we learned about trees and lichen this winter because you can always see those things, you know, throughout the year.
TEXT> We're looking at little branches. We're looking at any kind of life. This is a, unusual lichen that we've found. The kids. The the students really got good at identifying the three types of lichen leafy, leafy, crusty and shrubby. And this stick was really interesting to them because they had never seen lichen like that. And there's more tree looking at trees to see what type of tree they are. Sketching deer scat. So we had seen Deer Scout at the top of the ravine and in the ravine, but this pile was closer to the entrance, so it was evidence of where the deer move around in Moodie Park. This is spring, and this is a vernal pool near the entrance to Moodie that we found. We looked for evidence of stream anatomy and measured the depth of the vernal pool here. We predicted where the water would run and found the old culverts. And we learned about culverts with our stream table. So, you know, we we were able to look at it and see what was going on with it. We the kids, the different parts of the stream with just the little stream that was going in there. Even a explored path can be an adventure.
NEXT> Lisa Holtz: We saw many types of plants, and the source of that little stream that led to the vernal pool just right there. Benefits of outdoor learning. Social emotional healing and

[10374-98] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Lisa Holtz: birds are chirping and two kids, decided that that was true of them. So and I think that's the last the last slide. I think you better go one more just to make sure that's it. Okay. So thank you. Thank you for your time.
TEXT> Thank you so much. Nice to have a few things that I was thinking of and Lisa was speaking is, I believe, Lisa, correct me if I'm wrong. That part is a lot of opportunity for us to partner with. Not only. Philanthropic organizations across the state, but also other institutions like Dartmouth College and other places to bring outdoor learning in a meaningful way to our students. And so it's not necessarily, in any way, shape or form an additional burden on anyone. It's really  just an. The possibilities are limitless. With the opportunities that we have here.
NEXT> Lisa Holtz: Our. Own Sullivan County Conservation District, they are fabulous to work with. They want to they want to help us in any way they can. They they brought, one of

[10374-105] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (uncertain - introduced by LeClai | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: You know, I'd like to introduce Michelle beaten and some friends.
TEXT> We want to continue to enrich our children. And they want to talk to you about a potential winter winter program.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And. Yes. Excuse me.

[10374-108] Michelle Bian | Parent, Ward 2 (self-introduced; ASR 'Michelle Bian', LeClair's intro  | 2019-05-15
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> My name is Michelle Bian, and I'm a resident of War two.  I have a son  at Maple Avenue and a rising kindergartner and a six month old. So I wanted to share with you that, we, as a group of parents and support from the teachers, are proposing a five to 5 to 6 week winter program for elementary school children in Claremont with possible activities including snowshoeing, skiing, ice skating, and use of the community center, possibly swimming. Many other communities in our area offer winter programs, including Newport, Cornish, Sanibel, Plainfield, Hanover, Windsor, heartland, Hartford, Norwich and we feel that Claremont would offer this to our students as well. Teaching our children to be outside and to embrace the winter climate may provide many benefits, including physical activity to improve their health, exposure to new activities and better connections with our region may make them more likely to remain in our state, in our community, after graduation, to boost our economy and our community. Additionally, a vibrant winter program makes Claremont more attractive to families who are looking to move to this area. The details would be of 5 to 6 week program sometime between December and February breaks. Potential activities I said would be snowshoeing, skiing, ice skating, swimming, but not limited to that. This would be for working, thinking grades K through five, and all three of the elementary school principals who were up here previously are in support of this program.
NEXT> Michelle Bian: We have contact information and program information from six area schools that have similar winter programs. And we've discussed, meeting. We met with Mark Boylan at the Claremont Savings Bank

[10374-110] Unidentified | Unidentified - short remark absorbed into another speaker's cluster | 2019-05-15
PREV> Michelle Bian: work has been done by groups of parents. So and the idea of this is, spreading in the community. And people are really passionate and excited about something like this. And this is also something that, the teachers are feeling excited about as well. So.
TEXT> Yeah,  the, Teachers are embracing this as well. I happen to teach third grade at Maple with Lisa. And so, Lisa and I have been talking about this for a while, actually. But as a parent one, I think just one of my own children was had the opportunity to, be involved with the winter program, and she learned how to ski. And  not only did she learn that skill,  but it was a great opportunity to meet other kids from other schools. And, it's just beneficial all the way around. But from a teacher lens, we're all about standards,  and  there are several speaking and listening standards that this targets as well.  And then also on our report card  in the elementary level, anyway, we have a portion of the report card that is skills for successful learners. And so I went through those skills today. And there were 12 and it targeted ten of them. Just based on what we would be doing uses time constructively practices self control, listens without interrupting all of those skills  that some of our students learn at home and, and  frankly, some others don't. So it's a great opportunity  not only to be doing an outside activity, physical activity.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's healthy. It gets them away from the classroom and engage in other types of activities, but it just opens up a whole new world for so many of our

[10374-113] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: they want to be part of this community for the health of this district long term. We've already talked about funding tonight. This is yet another piece of that. And so if we can, we can increase our attractiveness of our school district to others.
TEXT> And coupled with all of the amazing resources we have in this community, we've just become higher and higher on the list of destinations for families as they're looking. And that's really what our, our, what we should be thinking about in addition to how do we provide a better educational experience for all of our kids? Because we, we,  we talked about in that and the goal setting process and, you know, yeah, we provide a lot of resources for a certain population of kids at the expense sometimes of another population of kids. And this is an opportunity that addresses all of them and can address all of them and really be enriching. Outdoor education in general does not require your approval in any way. Winter program. However, it is a change in what our current practice is and would. I think our ask of you this evening is to give that approval for us to move forward with Winter program. We have a team of dedicated parents who are interested in in committing their time and energy and effort to this,  and I expect that the cost of this would be nil for the district at least the first year or so, as they are seeking grant and other revenue sources beyond what the district already has in place, because it wasn't something that was budgeted locally.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: But there is a lot of of there are many available resources in our geographic region to help get this program off the ground, make it sustainable, make it long

[10374-114] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: I expect that the cost of this would be nil for the district at least the first year or so, as they are seeking grant and other revenue sources beyond what the district already has in place, because it wasn't something that was budgeted locally.
TEXT> But there is a lot of of there are many available resources in our geographic region  to help get this program off the ground, make it sustainable, make it long term, and make it a great opportunity for our kids.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Would this require a motion?

[10374-135] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2019-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: the Senate hearing and, and spoke and he was quoted. So it's an ongoing battle. But make sure you read the emails from the National School Board. There's do you get the emails from the school funding fairness? Do you get that as well? Yeah.
TEXT> I think it would be important.  I mean, the kids that worked hard in the legislative process, but they were kind of, not in the know as to what I was referring to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Right.

[10374-138] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-05-15
PREV> Carolyn Towle: And the connections got to be made. So that would be something that we would have to have as part of our goal is to get them connected.
TEXT> Right? Yeah. That's actually a good idea to go in and actually meet with the with the kids and show them some of the, what's been going on. That's not a bad idea. I'll connect with Mrs. Jason probably in the fall. We can talk about that kind of short notice now.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: But you could, you know, be a bug in the air to forthcoming.

[10374-233] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: It again. There are some names on here that that that I know. And, I'm sad to see them going, and I wish them all the best of luck. And, their resignations of read with great regret.
TEXT> And I guess I should explain my reasoning for not reading them out loud. I don't know if all of their students and colleagues are aware of their  decisions, so I would rather them tell their students and colleagues and have it be announced. On TV, CCTV.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So future agenda items. Again, we've got all of these for, the fall. We're not meeting the we will not have an early June meeting.

[10375-211] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 | 2019-05-16
PREV> Josh Malloy: want to make sure that we're doing the best we can to make sure that the risk is shared with another company. So, our financial server, for example, is hosted locally by us. It's run on an SCL server and fear hosted internally with us.
TEXT> There is an option to defer that over to, Tyler Technologies to host that for us. So that's one option that we could potentially look at to defer some of the risk that we have by hosting that information on our local servers. Also, our our student information system is is hosted locally and open to the internet. So there's a challenge there to make sure that stuff is staying up to date. The information is secure.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But there is the option to have them host.

[10407-98] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2019-06-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Rob.
TEXT> I think that we put our faith in Mike Tempesta to make the decisions on behalf of the board as far as hiring. It's just a gross overstep  of our authority to then think that we can have.  I absolutely agree we should have a conversation with him in that direction, but I don't think that we should stop him from hiring someone as he sees fit, right?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Or make him, which is what happened in the past.

[10463-65] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-25
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Aye. Any opposed? Abstentions. Great. Can you give that to Mary, please? Okay. Now we're in discussion in action items. And we have some nominations from Mike.
TEXT> Yes, yes. So, I have. Two nominations, so we don't have as lonely a letterhead as a, as you see on here in central office.  Those nominations are for Jeff Small as the director of technology.  Jeff has been with us  for for many years. About 13 combined years.  He has been in the field of it for 28 years. He knows every every nuanced configuration within the district and is excited about the role. And again, this was predicated on, Josh Malloy resigned, and  we're basically not filling one of the positions. This is part of that restructure. So we are moving him to the leadership role and then not filling  his position. He's well aware that, you know, he's going to  grow into the leadership role and still have the responsibility for the networking, but district configuration being what it is. I felt more confident in assessing what's going on in the district to reallocate  downsized central staff  a little bit so that we can get more teachers in the classroom to support the kids. So that that was that was his the second, nomination we have is Donna McGowan, assistant. Principal at the high school who for also for  special education, who has spent most of Don is in the audience today and has spent most of her career in elementary as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So has a full run K through 12 throughout. You know, public education has been an adjunct professor is very up on the theory. In what's going on around the

[10463-84] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-25
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I'm really happy to see that. And I've changed my thinking a little bit because you are making changes in other areas, and and I appreciate that. Are we going to have a, are we going to have a job description for an assistant superintendent?
TEXT> I think. They're already is a job description. I saw it in there. It was it was posted. So I can get that get that to, primarily  on that  in that vein though. Our responsibility for  curriculum instruction and assessment in the assessment goes drills down into  some of the virus standardized testing and measures the eye ready and the like and looking at the effectiveness of those things as we align our curriculum. She's not going to be alone on that. I showed her I would be helping in that as well as also we have two other members of the curriculum team, Brynn Kane and Steven Moss, who are  are integral to that as well. So it's a it's a good team. There's a lot of work to do with alignment, as I learned with the particularly at the middle school, with the half year requirements and things like that, that we really need to get after for the students.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I just wanted to say that I think what you're doing and sort of paring down administrative staff to add some teachers, is something that I've heard a criticism about

[10463-86] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-25
PREV> Jason Benware: see it at the teacher level rather than the staff level. Yeah, and I think that that's a good direction to be going in. And I have a feeling many in the community are very much in support of that. So, I think that's good.
TEXT> Yeah. I it's, particularly for that eighth grade test, you know, in preparing the kids for that. So when I do want to say it looks like preliminary and again, I can't wait to have the team behind me in school and session and meet.  Well, everything is going on, but,  I think that's going to be part of a 2 or 3 year plan to restore that sequence because they don't have enough. But we'll we'll know further on that too. And I also am excited about the direction of the middle school and meeting with the the administrative team there and the project based learning that's going to go on in the afternoons. And this will complement that  tremendously. Particularly science is so inquiry based things in the afternoon.  Afternoon is a good place to get hands on with middle school in a positive way. So that's that's what we're looking to do, right.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Make a motion to accept these two nominations as presented.

[10463-132] Courtney Porter | School social worker and McKinney-Vento homeless liaison, Claremont Sc | 2019-07-25
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Sure. I like. To, Thank Courtney Porter for running with and following up with this donation. And Courtney can speak to the specifics of it, but it's a really exciting contribution from Courtney.
TEXT> Good evening. So I am the school social worker and McKinney Vento, homeless liaison for the Claremont School District. And for the past seven years, I have taken on the role of facilitating, organizing and implementing the back to school festival in our community. We have a homeless population that is  over 10% of our school population, which at the state of New Hampshire level, when we look at New Hampshire, it's only 4%. So we are almost triple what the state has for a homeless population. Our students who are experiencing free and reduced lunch are at 50%. So this back to school festival not only addresses the needs  of our typically developing students, but it also offers an opportunity for some of our highest need students to to receive what they need to start the school day a backpack, pencils, folders and everything that you can imagine. And so over the past seven years, we've had a lot of different funds who have come in. But this year we are in an opportunity where the NFR, which is national field representatives, and Wheelan,  they are donating 600 filled backpacks to us. The total is over $3,000. And I'm going to be a huge dork, but like, this is so amazing,  to be able to know.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: So starting last year, I, I was putting out, cards so that we could collect data on what we're doing because, as you know, I came to you, like, 6

[10463-133] Courtney Porter | School social worker and McKinney-Vento homeless liaison, Claremont Sc | 2019-07-25
PREV> Courtney Porter: in an opportunity where the NFR, which is national field representatives, and Wheelan, they are donating 600 filled backpacks to us. The total is over $3,000. And I'm going to be a huge dork, but like, this is so amazing, to be able to know.
TEXT> So starting last year, I, I was putting out, cards so that we could collect  data on what we're doing because, as you know, I came to you, like, 6 or 7 years ago with my stories, and you're like, give me the data, Courtney. Degree the data.  So you know what I've done? I've got the data for you. The data is that kids needs us. They need us to give them backpacks. They need us to give them food. They need us to give them everything that they can.  So I believe that a part of your packet, I think  you might have received some, Am I allowed to hand out a flier? And does it need to be entered into record? Yeah. Okay. So can I enter the back to school flier into record and then handed out to everybody?
NEXT> Unidentified: You can.

[10463-157] Courtney Porter | School social worker and McKinney-Vento homeless liaison, Claremont Sc | 2019-07-25
PREV> Jason Benware: see all of the other things. And there's, there's a typically the food service company is there. So and people are able to ask questions about that and even get signed up for things. And there's all of the, the, the middle, the elementary schools.
TEXT> So all five of our schools. So the bluff is nard and Maple are there, CMS is there, the high school is there. And I will say that  we love and adore unity. And Chip is always invited. But unity does a really great thing of their own. But and this year I actually received a phone call from the John Paul Academy, which is the new Catholic school, and she asked, she's like, can we come? And I'm like, do you have kids? Are they going to school? Of course you can. So this year we'll have the John Paul Academy there in regards to schools. But we also have, there are free haircuts that happen at this event.  There are community members. Claremont Savings Bank I can't my list of is like 148 people. We this is what it's all about because you cannot start school without building a relationship. And so what this back to school festival does is it gives our students and our families an opportunity to connect with their schools. It gives them an opportunity. The busses, they're like kids who like, maybe you're a first grader and you've never ridden a bus before.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: Guess what? The bus is there and you can get on the bus and you can tour the bus. We have Golden Cross ambulances there. The police department is there,

[10472-17] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-07-30
PREV> Michael Tempesta: plenty to do with that. The we wanted to be expedient in approving this as fast as we could to give the the administrative team at the middle school enough time to hire appropriate staff so that that was the impetus for all of this.
TEXT> So I'm going to share what I know about this and this. This predates me actually being on the board. This is dates back when I still work for the district. And when doctor McGowan started, he was immediately faced with a pretty significant budget deficit. I think it was around $1 million. And so as part of that initiative to to meet the goal of of of that, he converted,  social studies and science, is it. Yes. At the middle school to, to a block half a year format, hence enabling him not to cut the positions, but the cut down on the number of people in order to meet that that  significant deficit that existed. Unfortunately, I think as time went on that  became status quo under Principal  Fitzgerald. And I think the time has come now where we start looking at,  if we're looking through a K-12 type of articulation that we have to have, making sure that our students, when they leave the middle school are as prepared as they can be to enter the high school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I think that, from what we've seen from test data under Cory LeClair and the curriculum people, there are some gaps for sure. And what we're seeing at the

[10472-19] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-07-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: some of that money that that I have been pretty much, consistent on the record about creep, administrative creep, and to kind of roll some of that back and put some back into instruction. So I'm very much in favor of this. So the comments.
TEXT> Yeah, I just want to sort of echo that and say that anytime we can shift away from paying administration and going more toward, education for our children, I'm in favor of it. So I'm going to make a motion.  And then we get more discussion anyway, right? Yeah, yeah. So I'd like to make a motion to  approve the higher of these two of teachers  and or,  freeing up the money for these two teachers anyway. I don't know. Let me try that again. I can make a motion to approve. The, hire of two new teachers that they see in this middle school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: No, a second.

[10472-28] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-30
PREV> Jason Benware: Yeah.
TEXT> We have enough math teachers now at the middle school that that's that's all set. It's it's more these immediate gaps for the  for those students.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: So was there any plans to. So you're saying that this is the next step would be teacher development and then perhaps even hiring more.

[10472-57] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: Drivers education at Stevens High School.
TEXT> Yeah, this this is just an  update on this, and I and I just heard back from we have a meeting set up for,  this week we're finalizing. We put a contract out.  Some submitted that was vetted by our attorney to to have kind of a long standing,  I think a four year to or five year  deal that is similar at the same cost. A nice outfit coming in. There was a lot of. I was talking to  Pat today at the high school. There's a there she anticipated 80 plus students are looking for this. Many of the students are already traveling all the way down to Jaffrey as far as Jaffrey. So  we're excited about it and you should be hearing more about that shortly. You know, our next meeting or however we shoot out that information. So that that was just a point of information.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Jason, don't know if you know this, but Jason, memory used to teach represent.

[10472-77] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-30
PREV> Jason Benware: Seven, 23, 67, 20.
TEXT> Seven, 20. You're right. Okay. So so the and then the other donation  we have for $1,595.51 from the Children's Fund of the Upper Valley for,  also to support the Finding our stride  initiative that went on there. So I wish I knew more specifically about that, but that had already had already happened.
NEXT> Unidentified: So okay.

[10472-82] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-07-30
PREV> Unidentified: Want.
TEXT> Me to? I'd like to make a motion that we accept three, donations of the first in the amount of $720 from the American Legion, the second in the amount of $360 from the Polish American Citizens Club, and the third in  the amount of $1,595.51 from the Children's Fund of the Upper Valley. With our thanks and appreciation.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Second.

[10506-141] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: So,
TEXT> Yeah, we're waiting for people to get back. And this is, again, something that we've spoken about. We we haven't had or heard a lot of, express value added. So what's been spoken about so far?  And I'm not and I'm not negating. There's two things, particularly for the people at home there. There's two aspects of this. There's the competency based aspect of it where we're looking at what every student needs to know and be capable of doing. And then there's the correlation. Or in in our case, as I've heard more about it and talked to other superintendents and other communities,  the correlation of that to what is known as a traditional letter grade, you know, an, A, B, or C  in combining those two things, we're one of the few places that actually did those two things simultaneously. So, what I have heard over and over and I've heard some,  you know, expressions of this from, from staff as well. Is it is that worth, is it worth continuing with that? And we're going to take a hard look at that, and we're going to have a subcommittee on that.  If it is something that is confusing people  and is actually impeding kids, this is what I've heard, and we haven't bought it out for data.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I've heard that some people are a little bit concerned, in some cases, that students were stymied by the by the traditional rank in process and where they how that

[10506-150] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: I think we're going.
TEXT> To look for complete community. Participation for parents particularly. You know, some of the things I've heard are issues having to do with sports eligibility, with class rank, with,  how colleges, college admissions, office offices, recenter a kids transcript anyway, and how that can add to an unnecessary layer on that confusion. So if it's not helping our kids and it's confusing our community, we we have to take a look at it. So  I don't I don't know what the result will be, but it's I think a a long time coming is I'm hearing it from people just coming in and being an outsider.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I think that, you know, we're all pretty busy, but I think there's some things you brought up that I'd be interested in. I'm sure others as well. So,

[10506-226] Steven Moss | Curriculum specialist grades 6-12, SAU 6 (chair's 'Mr. Moss'; full nam | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: So I might.
TEXT> As a side note, my former school district I workflow was really into Stem, and they discovered that we they ended up having a 57% participation rate in Stem programs by females after leaving their high school programs in a way that they were able to do. That was to garner excitement in combining what you could do with science, technology and engineering and helping serving the community. And so they developed a program where they had kids design and 3D print, artificial limbs for veterans coming back. And so these kids would design it, use 3D printers to print it out, saving veterans a cost of over $50,000 for replacement of those names. So once the kids found out that they could do that in middle school, they started that program after school. We had 30 kids working on designing these things for veterans. It was really pretty awesome to see that. So bringing those ideas to the school and helping, that would be something that I'm really looking forward to doing.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So we have, if I want to call it, similar number of years ago, through the Wellborn Foundation, we had a science teacher that was doing a lot of inquiry

[10506-268] Brynn Kane | Curriculum team, SAU 6 - induction and mentoring program coordinator ( | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: So there was.
TEXT> Supposed to be something in your packets, but it looks like it didn't make it in. So I can email this to you if you would like a copy of it, that's not a problem.  So yeah, induction with mentoring plus our new teacher week. Just at the mission and the vision. It's a little bit similar to what the mission and vision are for the saw six, but I changed it just to make it for the mentoring program. So saw induction and mentoring program is committed to supporting the growth and development of teachers new to our districts. And our vision saw six inspire self-driven excellence for all teachers through rigorous curricula and effective mentor mentee partnerships, emphasizing individual strengths and goals in a safe and supportive environment where all teachers will learn and grow and become contributing members of our district. So it matches what we expect of our students. We expect the same of our teachers. These are the objectives that have a lot of them have been part of the mentoring program for the last 15 years. They've just been kind of modified and added as we went along. So those are just our objectives. We want to retain quality teachers. I know that's an area where we've really struggled recently. The last couple of years we've had a really big turnover.
NEXT> Brynn Kane: So we really want to use this and we want to keep we want to keep teachers here and support them. We want to improve beginning teacher skills and performance.

[10506-292] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Or the children?
NEXT> Brynn Kane: Yeah. I don't want to do that.

[10506-302] Jeff Small | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and things like that. Mr. Small came up with a couple new strategies to have linkage with IDs and, scanners and just some, some, some great ideas with that, that he can speak to the bits and bytes better than I can with that. So.
TEXT> Yeah. So we just came up. I mean, students are wearing their badges all. The time, or they have  badges.  So we just kind of got in touch with the photo company. And essentially. We're just going to put a barcode on them. This is actually a test one I just couldn't show the students. So essentially they're going to right now, we were told at elementary schools, hey, somebody just put in a four my four digit pin, and it's not even my kids pin. And nobody would know. So the teacher now are at least our thought process is that the teacher is going to hand these out to the kids as they line up for lunch. It's their card, their Idy, and we're going to have hand scanners, so they're just going to scan it. Their picture comes up. On the Meals Plus program that we use. And it's just it's more of a confirmation for them. At the high school, we're going to actually even pilot using these as students come and go through the front door. This is going to be what they will be signing in and out of. This has their their Sassa  number, which is only tied to them, which will correspond to our power school. So, we'll always know who's in or who's out. Unless they go out another side door. But, it's just hopes to catch all that. Great.
NEXT> Jason Benware: It's just going to be basically a bean counter, right? It doesn't it doesn't actually access anything. Correct? Correct. It doesn't. Okay.

[10506-418] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-08-21
PREV> Carolyn Towle: You're going to start out by bringing this up.
TEXT> So last year, I went down to the school board Association delegates meeting, and I went to it and I realized that there had been there was supposed to have been a process that occurred where we, as a board were supposed to weigh in, with the School Board Association, essentially as a lobbying group on behalf of, of the school boards, identifying issues that are very important to us. And what happens is these, issues are presented to the assembled delegates  and they are voted on by that group, if that is actually going to be a priority of the lobbying power of the school Board Association. So that is never happened at all when I've been in my years on the board. I went to the delegates assembly last year and said, whoa, we missed the boat. I just got the letter in my packet from them that this process is starting. So we have a November 2nd deadline of, what we would like to do. What do we see as burning issues here in Claremont that we would like to present to the assembled delegates of school boards that they could, designate or assign the school board association to act as a lobbying group with the state,  with the with the Senate, with the legislature on our behalf. So I'd like to put that should we probably should have that on the next agenda, perhaps.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: So for us to submit a proposed resolution for consideration. Just put this together. Yeah.

[10506-421] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-08-21
PREV> Carolyn Towle: to see how to create the resolution. So I'm asking if you could just spend a little time, go back to that email, look through it, get a better grasp so we can have this as a, you know, a production of our school board.
TEXT> Certainly. Some of the topics last year were, were guns in schools, for example. That was a discussion.  Obviously funding is a no brainer. Everybody will everybody's going to have. That's a given. But what's what particular things do we have that that besides funding that we feel that, we're being receiving short shrift and  would like to have someone advocate at the  legislative level on behalf of us. So that's essentially what it is.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[10521-55] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-04
PREV> Jason Benware: We.
TEXT> Have the central office  team  was was out in force  as we, we made a commitment to spend,  3 or 4 hours a day in the schools every, every day of the year.  Not necessarily all of us each day,  but but this week it is so because it's a cool place to be. Pretty much. So we started out at the middle school. On opening day and went around and saw the kids  in, the teachers  doing doing great things and starting out. We were at the high school today.  I had the opportunity to,  to sit in a  drama class, among other  classes, and see some  exercises that were really  inventive and imaginative. And it was great to see the students,  you know, thriving out there. So  everything is off and and running.  I mean, that's all I, I have to report with two days in. So, so we will  we're excited to be out there.  We still have some positions  to fill.  We still have. And I'm trying to get used to this. It's a little bit different than a Massachusetts.  We have some teachers who have  left.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Just before that, I had to hold to the contract for a few. And we've also had people come to us from other districts that were waiting for. So there

[10521-73] Unidentified | Unidentified - staff member explaining summer credit-recovery eligibil | 2019-09-04
PREV> Carolyn Towle: They.
TEXT> They did it a little bit different before you had to. If you missed two  competencies then you qualified. But now we looked at the kids in general in their circumstances and why they they didn't they didn't meet the competencies. And we were able to pull in a lot more students than we have in the past. So we opened it up to a lot more students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The other the other fringe benefit to that too, is that, you wind up with a big bulge. If you don't do that, you wind up with a huge bulge

[10521-79] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And that's just one example. And there are many more, you know, throughout the budget that you folks have lived. But I thought it was important to to have those we have this amazing partnership now with Dartmouth that's exciting at the middle school level.
TEXT> Again, one of  of only two  middle schools in New Hampshire, as well as two in Vermont that's going out  to Dartmouth  on the 12th to to start that and really excited about the opportunities presented there. But we still need to there's no substitute for the teachers in the classroom, for the students, for class sizes and the like, and that's something that we'll have to address. So,  and I don't know if and we also had, if we wanted to segway into the other  part of that.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Mister while we.

[10521-162] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-04
PREV> Jason Benware: This.
TEXT> Was an amazing donation of of $20,000. Doctor Herzog reached out to them, told learn about the things that that were going on. I think the, the year before as well,  I, 15,000 they gave 15,000. And it's just amazing generosity that that's really going back to fund the programs in materials and things,  opportunities for kids to get out there.  And trying to explore other programs as well. I know Alex has been looking into the criminal justice and a few other  programs, and it's just great seed money that goes directly to the students, really, really increasing what we can offer. So, we're incredibly appreciative.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So is this above the threshold, though, where we would have to have a public hearing to accept this amount of money?

[10521-310] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-09-04
PREV> Gary Merchant: Our.
TEXT> Population is still roughly the same, which means these are people that are not raising children. These are  there's a lot more baby boomers out there in this town. Than than there are young people.  And so our town is, I think, more, even more affected by it than other towns because there's a there's a ton of people  in the, say,  70, 65 to 80.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The median income.

[10521-336] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-04
PREV> Jason Benware: Western New Hampshire is a very different area.
TEXT> And I forget which speaker it was. Frank, but the  gentleman was very compelling in making the case. Several were in particular that particularly talking for poorer communities that that they are our children. Not not New Hampshire's children. Not not Claremont's not. You know, is.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That the commissioner?

[10521-338] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: That the commissioner?
TEXT> I, I don't I'm, I don't know, I don't think so. I don't think so. I think I, I think it might have been the gentleman from Berlin. Yeah, yeah. So, but it was very compelling, you know, just just to have that perspective that they're, they're all our kids, no matter which town they're from, you know, their students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So those are the those of you who are listening at home, call the governor, let them know how you feel. Any other business?

[10521-345] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-04
PREV> Carolyn Towle: The one that I wanted to go to was pulling back the curtain. New Hampshire's educational landscape.
TEXT> That that one I think is, is is interesting because, again,  a lot of people will tell you that New Hampshire is doing fine. Thank you. Our our scores are high. Our kids perform well.  But again, that's data that really needs to be, unpacked in that, private schools are incorporated into the New Hampshire data. So it's, it's and again, high achieving kids are overrepresented in the, in the data because they're the ones who take the tests that they're using as the metric, the SATs and the SATs. So disadvantaged kids have a tendency not to take those courses. Kids that are headed for the community colleges have a tendency not to take those tests. So it's a it's it's not a I would be very interested to hear what they, when they say our tests are we're doing well. I'd like to know based on what metric that would be the essential question to that.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: And my question is, last year we ended up paying the total amount at one time for all these workshops so that we didn't have to pay individual pricing for

[10537-49] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: at Dartmouth as part of the four middle schools, two from New Hampshire and two from Vermont that are we had a ideation session, basically an open, open session to plan how we were going to go forward with our five year partnership and to
TEXT> talk about the things in the fields of science and as well as in engineering. It was hosted at Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth.  Unbelievable facility. And you'll see a few slides in a minute to talk about that. But a really exciting opportunity. And it was really exciting to hear from their graduate students, engineering students  who were talking about the units that they hope to plan with the educators, and also, from the perspective of the educators,  exactly what it is that students need to know, want to know. And we used  the feedback from the Montana  museum as well. And they were participants  all kinds of exit survey data to come up with a with a plan  in a series of field trips, units and things like that that are going to be very exciting. That will keep you posted with over the next five years. So,  these are representatives. I don't know if I have to go. Vegas here. Okay. So all.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[10537-57] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: which, of course, we would be very much in favor of in Claremont. It would really mean that a lot of money would come to us. That is, we're now in the precarious state of continuing with a continued resolution for the folks at home.
TEXT> That just basically means that we don't know how we're going to be funded going forward. We do know that it's going to be a significant detriment to us  to aid, not know for planning purposes, and also to be operating at only a quarter of our budget that was promised for the year. So  we're hoping there's a change in that, but we don't know how that is going to go. But those are the two financial matters. It's a precarious time, but we're hoping that this should be resolved  one way or another in the next couple of months. So and that's all I have to report. I'd rather go back to the smiling faces of the kids. Maybe I should have led with the drier stuff. A note for next time. But, but,  I also have,  Mr. Moss did a great presentation and can speak about the,  the project based learning or the problem based learning. I  honestly didn't know that there's two kind of synonymous terms going back and forth. But either way, the concept is that there's a group putting your heads together and applying the knowledge that you're learning in a traditional format to specify to a specified problems. Give me a second here.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I thought that they were going back for another vote by Friday. That was my understanding. Have they already gone back and he's vetoed it again?

[10537-103] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12, SAU 6 (self-identified [149]; ASR  | 2019-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: For sure.
TEXT> Sure. All right. Now for better things for teaching learning. So I'm Steve Moss on the curriculum specialist for Sussex for grades six through 12th grade. So,  I'd like to start with a little presentation and some questions. Is the sound playing? We we tested this beforehand and it was working then. So there we go. So we're in second week of our PBL initiative at the middle school. And so I would be remiss if I didn't mention Terry Hayward. She's the brainchild behind all of this. And it was put so much work effort into organizing the choice boards that you saw up on the screen. And so essentially, the way that the format is working is  the all the kids, all the teachers at the different grade levels get to pick a project that they would like to do with the kids, and then they figure out how to incorporate some of the same learning competencies that they would do in their normal classes,  and tie that into the projects that they're doing with the students. And then they give out a choice board without their names on it, just the projects to the kids. And the kids pick their first, second and third choice.  And then Terry Hayward takes them all home and she schedules them. She spent like two frantic nights, like organizing the entire school and, you know, put these kids into their project groups.
NEXT> Steve Moss: And then at the end of the school day, the last what is it? 45 minutes, our 55 minutes of the school day. The kids all go to their different

[10537-104] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12, SAU 6 (self-identified [149]; ASR  | 2019-09-18
PREV> Steve Moss: the kids. And the kids pick their first, second and third choice. And then Terry Hayward takes them all home and she schedules them. She spent like two frantic nights, like organizing the entire school and, you know, put these kids into their project groups.
TEXT> And then at the end of the school day, the last what is it? 45 minutes, our 55 minutes of the school day. The kids all go to their different projects and they work on these engaging projects. So, for example, Terry Hayward is doing the labyrinth project that we saw. And what she does is she takes these kids out and has them build the maze, and they do all the mathematic calculations for the for the, you know, the how to build an elaborate and these  the automobile one. It started out where kids were going to learn how to change a tire on the car, but the kids have taken it into a whole new level. Whole class is going in and they're researching how they buy a car versus leasing the car. What are the differences and why? Why should you consider one over the other? The day that I was in there, they were going on to Claremont Insurance Company websites and getting the rates of what they would have to pay for the insurance on a vehicle so they could figure out the overall cost of the vehicle that they want.
NEXT> Steve Moss: Then they go in and they figure out what kind of career path they need to get to get the job, to get the car that they want to buy.

[10537-105] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12, SAU 6 (self-identified [149]; ASR  | 2019-09-18
PREV> Steve Moss: that I was in there, they were going on to Claremont Insurance Company websites and getting the rates of what they would have to pay for the insurance on a vehicle so they could figure out the overall cost of the vehicle that they want.
TEXT> Then they go in and they figure out what kind of career path they need to get to get the job, to get the car that they want to buy.  So it's all kind of connected together. And the second part of the course, they go in and they learn the maintenance on the vehicle. And that's what those kids were, you know, learning the different parts of the engine and learning, you know, where is the starter, where's the alternator, where's the. So they could, you know, be able to perform maintenance on the car. So what's really exciting is walking around in school, the one day I was taking video, I wanted to get Terry Hayward because on camera, but she had taken her kids out to a corn maze to do all the mathematical calculations on a field trip, so I couldn't get her on film. So I'm very I'm very sorry, but she was doing some cool stuff with her kids.  But what I've noticed when I go around is the engagement level of these kids is off the charts. You know, you go in there, they're all working, they're all very interested in what they're doing. And, you know, hopefully they learn something about it.
NEXT> Steve Moss: And it's kind of interesting. So we're pretty excited about it. Everything so far has been really positive. And that's what I had to report. So I was hoping that

[10537-114] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12, SAU 6 (self-identified [149]; ASR  | 2019-09-18
PREV> Unidentified: Shoot some of that video. You know.
TEXT> Those those kids all on the computer banks. You know, I didn't have to tell them anything. They were they were they were working. They were going. And the teacher comes up to me, he's like, I've never seen him this engaged. This is just fantastic. So, you know, they're really into it and it's really exciting.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But Miss Buckland anticipated my question, which was, would the heightened engagement, what's discipline look like? And pretty predictable.

[10537-169] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-18
PREV> Unidentified: Okay, okay.
TEXT> So that's coming up at 6:00, 6:00 on Thursday the 26th. Our next saw board meeting is the 10th. And if you haven't indicated that your will be attending, I think everybody's gotten an invite for that. So make sure that, as you as you know, those are, we see they're really close to having a quorum on those. That's helpful if we know who's going so we can actually have the meeting, then, school board retreat. It's going to be a single, as far as I can tell, a single agenda item, just simply the A conversation. Hopefully we'll have a lot more information than, than we do  now  around what we're looking at. Be great. If we could,  go into looking into negotiations and such without  wondering how much we would have to eliminate to to make ends meet. So,  again, I had written an I wrote an op ed to the e ticker, and I put communication. So how to get Ahold of your how to get Ahold of the governor, how to get Ahold of reps. It's in there. Give them a call. I think the main point in my op ed that this is, let's get past the tribal politics, and this is our. These are our kids. This is our town. There's no us on them when it comes to our kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[10537-230] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: may have to wait it and back and forth. You know, it didn't change, but particularly as it correlates to to math scores in music, I mean, there's there's a lot of studies on that, you know, on, on the improvement of, of, of grades.
TEXT> So one of the problems that, you know, and you could have the discussion, well, why wait grades. But the problem with that is, is that,  not all colleges weight them. And so you really put your kids at a disadvantage,  when they're applying against schools that do weight their grades in schools that don't. And if the college doesn't do something to to fix that, the kids from the schools where they don't wait, the grades are a huge disadvantage  for scholarships and everything. So.
NEXT> Unidentified: Heather, you were talking about putting folks or students in the words in that you would are interested in eliminating the linear ranking?

[10558-43] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-10-02
PREV> Craig Scott: again for taking the time to listen to me. If you'd like to find out more about the work that we're doing, please visit value Dash up or click the link below. Thank you for all the work that you're doing to help your students.
TEXT> So I had to. Start it off on that note. But,  so yesterday he appeared at our school,  to talk to his staff, students, parents and leaders throughout the day. He started his day with two assemblies, one for a sophomore, one for juniors and seniors, which were about to back. He then followed by a leadership training with students who whom have been identified as student leaders by faculty. In the afternoon, he hosted a staff training and in the evening he finished his day with a community event, sharing his story and waitress matches and Rachel's message to spread kindness and care for everyone. He created the Friends of Writers Club  at Stevens High School, with the students who attended the student leadership training that day. This club will pursue kindness challenges and meet Demand Flats time on Tuesdays and Thursdays  on Monday, Wednesdays and Fridays during passing of block three, students will participate in high five hallways with students and with people they may never engage with elsewhere. The club will focus on ideas from the high five  hallways to social media projects and other missions.  I personally have the honor to be on this club and to be so. That is one of the student leaders.  There was about 30 plus students on this, and we thank him for coming. And there was another video. This next video is about. The wages challenge, which we will be participating in again in the near future.
NEXT> Unidentified: In her journey, she said, don't limit to what I want to ask you. I want to show the world what I have. That this program brought today was something

[10558-46] Unidentified | Voice in recorded Rachel's Challenge / Value Up video shown to the boa | 2019-10-02
PREV> Craig Scott: It really.
TEXT> Opened my eyes to see the world in the totally different perspective. You know, looking at different perspectives from from everyone's point of view. And instead of trying to judge them or shun them or try to fix them. We try to understand for what they're living through. Just the thought of that. Everyone is human and everyone struggles with something just completely. It just touched my heart today and I could just see the barriers being broken down. I was amazed at what I saw today from our kids, really wasn't sure how they would react. They were very intense and watching and paying attention. They had a boldness and a. Courage that I've not seen some kids and that they didn't have to look at and see what someone else was doing and how someone else was feeling. I think it was it was an emotional connection for them, a sense of, wow, that's not far from me, and that's my sister, or that's me or that's my friend. I just seen so much of myself in her, and I just think it's not coincidental. And I'm. And I've said before, like, I'm ready to change the world. And I feel like this is just  is a great step that knowing that it's not only me who  who wants this, but just like, as we've seen today, it's so many other people to that are just ready to step up and rise up and make a difference.
NEXT> Unidentified: You've selected about 50 or 60 kids to participate, to become trained in how to promote this in our school. And I really feel like the kids emotionally were challenged

[10558-47] Unidentified | Voice in recorded Rachel's Challenge / Value Up video shown to the boa | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: this is just is a great step that knowing that it's not only me who who wants this, but just like, as we've seen today, it's so many other people to that are just ready to step up and rise up and make a difference.
TEXT> You've selected about 50 or 60 kids to participate, to become trained in how to promote this in our school. And I really feel like the kids emotionally were challenged and want to take part of making our school and our community a better place. I really saw how Rachel really wanted the world to come together. It really helped me as a person. I was a whole lot those of my classmates today than I would be any other day, because we all together felt the same thing. And you can just feel. How everyone in that moment was feeling that same thing.  And it wasn't just an assembly anymore.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: So that happened yesterday at the high school. On September 19th, 2019, Megan from the National Student Voice Organization led three student training sessions. All of these students who attended

[10558-48] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: a whole lot those of my classmates today than I would be any other day, because we all together felt the same thing. And you can just feel. How everyone in that moment was feeling that same thing. And it wasn't just an assembly anymore.
TEXT> So that happened yesterday at the high school.  On September 19th, 2019, Megan from the National Student Voice Organization led three student training sessions.  All of these students who attended these three student training sessions with the student Voice  were all of the same kids who are now part of the Friends of Rachel's club that was created yesterday. And Dave powerful trainings and introduced people just didn't voice in student leadership. Students brain tones brainstormed many ideas in the three different sessions on ways to improve the climate and culture, and Stevens High School for Claremont Middle School. The middle school would like to congratulate the following students for obtaining student of the month for September 2019 for grades six Liliana Eden, grade seven. We are quick grade eight. Shelly Butterfield for the Media Center is about listen for the unified outs for grades 612 and how for grade seven unified outs Hunter Abbott and for Unified Algebra eight. Mason Fallon.  The Choose Love initiative is drawn up for that. Any issues? They are still focused and uncovered for elementary school. Today was their picture day, and they have many trips set up for their students to attend.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: Tomorrow. They traveled to Edward Orchards Friday, the kindergarten and first grade window to review found. And on October 8th, third and fourth graders will go to French Ledges. All

[10558-49] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-10-02
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: Abbott and for Unified Algebra eight. Mason Fallon. The Choose Love initiative is drawn up for that. Any issues? They are still focused and uncovered for elementary school. Today was their picture day, and they have many trips set up for their students to attend.
TEXT> Tomorrow. They traveled to Edward Orchards Friday, the kindergarten and first grade window to review found.  And on October 8th, third and fourth graders will go to French Ledges. All these trips provide students with a hands on learning experience for dessert. At elementary school just now, does it not enjoy an incredible open house? Last week it was so wonderful to see so many designer families come and visit their children's classrooms and see all of the land, and that has a tiered thus far, a new part to the festivities this year. Was the toes mu pu plastic unfortunately, doubtless fell without a winner, so we drew the winner from a hat. A huge thank you to April and Charlie Woodman for donating their time and tired to this event. Students in grades one through five recently completed the fall. I already diagnostic family reports will be sent home once all students have completed this assessment. Surveys were we sent to all elementary school families seeking the kinds of activities that their children would be interested in participating in Darwin, our upcoming winter program. We have it so very excited to see what our students are interested in this winter and from April Avenue. I have nothing to applaud.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Any questions for the student rep?

[10558-50] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: families seeking the kinds of activities that their children would be interested in participating in Darwin, our upcoming winter program. We have it so very excited to see what our students are interested in this winter and from April Avenue. I have nothing to applaud.
TEXT> Any questions for the student rep?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Oh, I went to the the event last night with Craig Scott. To me, I went into.

[10558-58] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: So on. So that's a good time.
TEXT> So I like I I'll come back to that. Principal. Barry couldn't be here tonight. It was her birthday. She sends her apologies. She's going out. We excused her, but she's going to be here in spirit. This is a clip. So, as people mentioned last night, Craig Scott, I had the opportunity to work with Craig Scott. I think at 12 years ago when I was a principal of Massachusetts, he presented to our area Principals group. You know, a similar message in Rachel's challenge that really caught on. And I'm so excited that the kids grasped on to that so much. And I was I saw both presentations in the morning, and they're really excited and really moved by the message. And it's, it's really a system of personal ethics and a perseverance. And that's his message of joy in getting through tragedy. And then that was the message that you heard in the clips before. Two, that everyone has baggage in their lives, but it's more how you move beyond that. And it's going to be a great program and we will have him back. He's already committed to that, that he's going to video conference in the in the spring with the group as we get that off the ground. And then we've also already started preliminary talking for next year to do it a little bit more thoroughly. And he did a staff training as well. So so.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It wasn't all somber. He was a he's a pretty dynamic presenter and speaker.

[10558-63] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Craig Scott: Out with me there.
TEXT> And he also, as you think he spoke to our kids after each presentation in the day and in the evening. He, last night he spoke to all the adults in the room.  And it was it was really a moving experience. People were immediately sharing their stories and situations with them. He's really talented presenter and we will have him back.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[10558-75] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: professional development classes, class visitations and observations, and supporting what teachers need in their classrooms in the work. That's to help the teachers and the students. Curriculum alignment and assessment, review of the competency based standards and the grading process and the linkage for that.
TEXT> I know we've talked about that as a committee, and that's also we have a whole committee for that, that we'd love to have board members and people at home help us with those things and hear that feedback in a formal way. The Stem and the arts initiatives, and also the review of staffing and program offerings per grade level, what we offer at each level, how often, how much time we put in at each grade level, in each subject matter, and how that translates through the whole run of a student's career in the in the schools expansion of alternative programing within the Claremont district. In the review of building schedules to maximize student access to all curriculum offerings. The third, but certainly not least, and also very much linked to the work that's been going on in the past couple of years that we spoke about at at Stevens in particular, but also at every school in the elementaries. And, is a review of social emotional learning and curriculum and push in and support services, basically attending to students needs and teaching them as, as they come to us as learners, understanding all of all of trauma informed and the types of things that our students have gone through so that they can really be ready to learn.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we're going to expand all of the trauma informed instruction, the professional development, as we spoke to, and the consistency among the student assistant teams at each grade level

[10558-107] Mr. Morris | Stevens High School administrator presenting program of studies in pla | 2019-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Surname the AP exam. How is the cost of the exam is going to be handled.
TEXT> So financial aid is available for students number one. Number two if you are on free and reduced lunch I think there is a reduced price. I don't quote me, but it's about $3 for the exam. It's it's minimal. And  so but you know, we have money in the budget to take care of any particular issues. If those students need to need help with that, we can we can arrange that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Go ahead. If you want to go ahead.

[10558-135] Mr. Morris | Stevens High School administrator presenting program of studies in pla | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: So okay.
TEXT> This will be here and available. And you know, we can make updates to it as necessary. You know, like when we had the encounter, the issue of the history class, I believe we put out to the counselors a packet with the available ninth grade courses to the students. At the time. I'm not sure if that trickled down to the parents or not, but you know, I know we put a packet out there, but this moving forward, we'd like this to be the program of studies and then come back and make changes as they come about.
NEXT> Unidentified: Awesome.

[10558-146] Gary | Stevens High School teacher, German exchange program coordinator (surn | 2019-10-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: two Gary's waiting in the wings, so we'll go with Gary. Does anybody have any objection to Gary? Call us and going because we're behind schedule. So I hate to keep staff here waiting all night. Sorry. Thank you. Gary. Thank you for being patient.
TEXT> Some of you know why I'm here. For those of you who don't. Our school has had a partnership with the German high school. We signed the agreement in 2001. We had our first exchange in 2003, and we've had eight so far. They take place every two years involving a home stay with the German group in Claremont. In this year will be April, usually around their Easter vacation, and then  our students traveling to Germany, usually about a week or so after school, is out and staying anywhere from two and a half to three weeks. In Germany. The the hope is that,  you know, through this program, we can create some relationships, long lasting relationships between students on both sides of the ocean and open up our own students perspectives and broaden their horizons and do it in a way that is lasting and meaningful for them.  So I put together some some things for your packet. Unfortunately, I did not have the time to translate the German half of the calendar of activities, but you can get some general idea and I can translate anything you'd like. If you see something there that peaks your interest. The New Hampshire half is in English, and this is sort of a sample of the kinds of things that they do when the German students are visiting us.
NEXT> Gary: We try and give them a feel for what Claremont is like as well as the region. Many of them have never, of course, seen The Atlantic before. So we

[10558-147] Gary | Stevens High School teacher, German exchange program coordinator (surn | 2019-10-02
PREV> Gary: and I can translate anything you'd like. If you see something there that peaks your interest. The New Hampshire half is in English, and this is sort of a sample of the kinds of things that they do when the German students are visiting us.
TEXT> We try and give them a feel for what Claremont is like as well as the region. Many of them have never, of course, seen The Atlantic before. So we go and freeze to death at York Beach. Usually at some point we see Boston, Portsmouth.  We go to Fort at number four. We, Whalen has been gracious about giving us tours. We added North Country Smokehouse there. I think the man who's in charge of the production there is German,  and was really excited to find out that there was a group of of students from his homeland coming to visit. So he did a really good job welcoming them  to tour North Country last time. So we try and, you know, show them some things that are unique to our area, to New Hampshire and New England, and then they reciprocate when we go to Germany. We, we also try and reduce the costs as much as possible by making it home stay on both ends. So our students do not have any room and board expenses when they are in Germany. The main thing that we have to cover is the the plane ticket and spending money. And if they don't have a passport then they have to obtain a passport as well. So I think those are the main things, but I'm happy to answer any questions that you have  if you have any. Yes, ma'am.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just want to tell you I love this. I went to Germany in. High school and it's such an amazing experience, so I would always be a 100% advocate

[10558-160] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Gary: And yes, you have.
TEXT> Working at the school when the kids were there. And,  I'm always impressed at, the, the level of English that these, these students bring. I remember one year I think it might have been 2010. They just barely made it back to Germany before the volcano erupted in Iceland. Yeah, it suspended traffic. I think they made it by less than a day.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[10558-169] Gary Merchant | NH State Representative, Claremont Ward 2 (introduced by the chair) | 2019-10-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: to get some help. And I've looked over the documents a number of times and, it's it's hard to parse it all out. So if you, if Gary merchants approaching the microphone. Representative Ward two, if you could give us a hand in some way.
TEXT> Chairman, maybe for the over the course of all right. Career. My time with our family, we hosted ten exchange students. And I'll tell you, every single one of them has been a pleasure to host. We still remain in contact with most of them. We actually went to Romania recently to catch up with one who's now 35 years old, married and has two children. So it's an opportunity for all the children at that time in their life. It's just informative and leave such and impression in regards to Medicaid. Shifting gears, I don't have a complete answer. I will say this it's national in scope.  It's not New Hampshire specifically. What it really comes down to is that if you look at Medicaid, which is part of CMS, there's a requirement that the services provided by Medicaid are authorized by a health care provider, which is like a physician, a nurse practitioner, a PA. It's not so much by the site of care, it's by who authorizes the care. So in the past, there was some flexibility in there, which the state did through the Department of Education, to allow for people who weren't Pas nurse practitioners or physicians to authorize the service. Unfortunately, according to CMS, at the national level, that's not sufficient for them to qualify to meet the obligation of the requirements for the service.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: So the governor is now trying to work through things nationally, along with other state governors, to try to find out there's any flexibility in there. Right now, we don't

[10558-191] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yes, yes.
TEXT> So if we if we're not providing the services, then we don't need the reimbursement for it. So if the if it's if it's requires medical people, then cut the school out of the equation and just push the whole thing into the medical field in. One of the reasons to support this in my mind, is the whole purpose of these of these interventions is access to the curriculum. What else could it be? And so these kids can can function in the school.  So the current model is we pull them out of their academics to deliver those services so that they miss parts of their school day to receive those services. So if we take if all of these services take place outside of the school, then they really, truly do have full access to the curriculum not being denied. So I don't know if we can even begin to have that conversation. And I'm sure that, my colleagues that are that are OT, OT people and medical people can give me a million reasons why that wouldn't work. But in my simple world, if it's a medical issue, let the medical people deal with it.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: You're not going to get the same level of service. Not even close.

[10558-291] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Yeah okay.
TEXT> If if that becomes problematic let us know and we'll  move it out. But so we've got other agenda items that will probably try to get more specificity on when we're going to be doing them. One of the things that went through my mind when we're we're looking at the program of studies tonight, was the alternative programing at that level. And, a concern to me was this year with the size of the graduating class  and was and again, talking to some of our seniors who were graduating, I'm not sure that these groups have had the options to regain credit and go get through, as other groups have had when we had, ombudsman in the owls program. So I know that there were issues with that program. But again, I might concern was was with the size of the class, someone had said that the class started at 130 or something and wound up graduating 80 something. So I'm wondering what happened to those other 50 kids that were in that class, and how many of those kids would have graduated if we had a  an owl saw an ombudsman. So I want to,
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Is that just graduation or moving? Transferring. That's all encompassing, right? Over the four years?

[10558-302] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Ago, several like two years ago.
TEXT> When I, I, when we  brought in ombudsman, I actually wrote the grant for that program.  And, one of the reasons that  that,  and I went around and looked at went down to Rochester and I went to Littleton and and toured a number of alternative programs  and interviewed kids as to why they were not successful in school and why they were being successful were formerly they had not been. And overwhelmingly it was school phobia.  It was not. Wasn't their ability, lack of ability. It wasn't that they, couldn't do the work. They just couldn't handle the school environment. And so, if we don't have anything for those kids that are in that category, then we're going to graduate. We're going to lose 30 or 40 kids a year. So I want to see what we can do, what we're doing around that. And I know that  that's been your your specialty, really, Mr. Tempesta, is that type of thing. So I'd like to get that on the agenda at some point. What are we going to do for those kids to get get left behind? So, anything else for grading system? There's a committee on that. School safety looks like a committee. Health policies. And Ben's coming next week. The the retreat is going to be the 20th. And that starts at 10:00. Has the room been reserved at the tech center has. Great. Thank you for doing that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And you should have all received. An invite.

[10577-10] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Worry about this. So, the Friends of Rachel group at Stevens High School traded as a result of credits starts. Visit is involved in a number of in in initiatives including high five hallways every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Hands along the wall as outward in an Instagram Compliments page, which is highlighted for the student of the week this week, is that Snyder and for the teacher of the week is Senora miller, who is the Spanish teacher. Yesterday, 13 students went to the care conference put on by Kearsarge High School  at Colby Sawyer College, as well as South Hedren High School to hear from fellow students about their community service initiatives. Students shared their ideas and views with the ideas to start their own student organization in their own schools.  To go with that.  So yesterday we attended with Principal Berry and Superintendent  Tempesta. I was their first care conference.  We had schools from TSR to Newport to sell John Stout to Stevens. Franklin to Hillsborough and Winter Storm High School, and I'm pretty sure I missed a couple.  At this conference, student started to interact with other students from the from these other schools to come up with ideas for answers to the questions of the day.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: I did share with everybody the agenda of the day that has all the T questions. The main question of the day was taken in a community of diverse people

[10577-12] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-10-16
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: It's. Well, if a student gets a hall passed as they were or a detention past as they were out in the hallway, they didn't challenge it and bring it to a group of students who also led the to be in the student, Joey.
TEXT> 11  students went on the Women and Engineering Fair trip to the River Valley Technical Center in Springfield, Vermont. This was the spirit and opportunity for these young women. Yesterday, the students from downtown came to work with our seed.  Students for two hours as part of the four year Co Hall initiative. These students will be made and quarterly throughout the year, as well as in the summer, to propel our students for college. SATs took place for approximately 40 students today, as well as the city's approximately 30 students attended the college fell at Teen State College on Thursday, September 26th, and were able to tour the campus and learn about the many programs available. Last night, the boys varsity soccer team triumph over five mountain to win the Barnard Cup and bragging rights for the coming year. For  Claremont Middle School. On October 9th, Claremont Middle School will host the Out There to sponsor the this year from 8 to 3 p.m., rain or shine, in the cafeteria. They are hoping people will turn out to support this year's eighth grade class. The PBL project at the middle school is off of the hitch. The students are so engaged during that time for doesn't have elementary school.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: The fall Festival math night that is in place of the usual, spooky story night took place, last night from 7 p.m.. Mabel will host their and their PTO movie

[10577-13] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-10-16
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: rain or shine, in the cafeteria. They are hoping people will turn out to support this year's eighth grade class. The PBL project at the middle school is off of the hitch. The students are so engaged during that time for doesn't have elementary school.
TEXT> The fall Festival math night that is in place of the usual,  spooky story night took place,  last night from 7 p.m.. Mabel will host their and their PTO movie night in the gym from 7 to 8 p.m. on Friday, the 18th of October. On October 31st, Maple Leaf will host their annual Halloween parade from 130 2:30 p.m., where students and staff dressed up and walked to NFR, then back to the school. Families of the students come out to support for should have a Valley Regional Center. The test center  is written on a plaque for the band Foundation. Recognition. Students in carpentry, construction and plumbing and HVAC at the end of September attended the Construction Days event as blowing careers in those trades. Carbon day  students are repairing and we finishing power benches for the city and building a wheelchair accessible pathway at the preschool. Culinary competed in the Chamber of Commerce of Claremont's chili kickoff.  Although they didn't win, the students had a good time making their meals. CTE region ten meeting is for October 23rd at the Tet Center from 5 to 7. All are invited to hear about what the Claremont and Newport Tet Centers are currently doing in planning for in the future.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: Tatsuno is on the school board agenda for the upcoming November meeting to present to the board, and I would like to end tonight's report by wishing Principal Barry speedy

[10577-21] Unidentified | Bluff Elementary student, outdoor education presentation | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: do? He went out exploring. He escaped. Right. He just kept from his home. And we kind of escaped the classroom like Pip, right? Yeah. Yeah. So we got for outdoor ed, right? We escaped. Just like our reading Wonder's program tells us to. Look.
TEXT> Look at our learning space, which we have created at our school. Yesterday we learned about why leaves change colors and experience big world words like chlorophyl and photosynthesis, and how the sun helps make food for trees. We made fall wreaths to bring home and share  our learning. We went  on a. Nature scavenger. Hunt and then we used our materials to play  I-Spy and. Memory. Let's play that now. All right, so tell us how we're going to play this game. So we are. Going to look at the objects. And  then there's going to be. So one's going to be taken away and sometimes none. And you're trying to figure out which one goes away. All right. I'm ready to box outside. Sorry. We had the children when they were outside. They went and gathered whatever fascinated them the most, and we kept sending them back. Find something that was bumpy, find something that was green. Find something that was red.  So we just have a hodgepodge right now, and they all chose one. Ready. And they get a couple minutes to look at it. Look at it with your binoculars. Focus right in on it. You want to play at home? Hold on a second. All right. There you go.
NEXT> Unidentified: Nice binoculars. Thank you. Thank you. And we have classes of 15, so there will be 15 objects on the tray. And then they shut their eyes. Shut their eyes

[10577-22] Unidentified | Bluff Elementary first-grade teacher, outdoor education presenter (nam | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: hodgepodge right now, and they all chose one. Ready. And they get a couple minutes to look at it. Look at it with your binoculars. Focus right in on it. You want to play at home? Hold on a second. All right. There you go.
TEXT> Nice binoculars. Thank you. Thank you. And we have classes of 15, so there will be 15 objects on the tray. And then they shut their eyes. Shut their eyes don't look. Yeah. We make them turn around so that they really don't look. Remove one. Hide it. Open your eyes. And what is missing? What's missing? What is it? The acorn right there. What was it? The pine cone. Is it the pine cone? Yep. It is. So then we would trash this over our shoulders, and we'd have them set off to find something else that was in our sensory for the scavenger hunt. With 15 items on the tray, you would get multiples of, let's just say acorns. And the kids got really good at counting. You would see them count how many were there so they could try to remember. So the strategies they were developing to try to remember what was there and was not there. And then using their language skills and knowing that this is well, once was a pine cone and that type of situation, they had a lot of fun with this game. The second one we played was what's in the mystery? And you can just pass that around and see if you can guess what's in it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Go out and stick your hand and it won't bite. But it was the same thing. It was what do you hear? Their shaking it. They're touching it and trying

[10577-31] Unidentified | Bluff Elementary fourth-grade teacher, outdoor education presenter (na | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: the outside. Did you know that bark hath paws? I wonder how bark is made. Hemlock belongs to the pine family. Pine family? It. It's an evergreen. Ten species are native to America, four species and Asia six species. Hemlock reaches 35 to 197ft tall.
TEXT> And so we have, nature journals that the kids collect things  and,  draw what they, what they see, and they write about the things that they see. All right. This is Lucas Teboe. We also have  science bags that we have the kids take out with microscopes and or like, little hand lenses and things to collect things in. One day we went apple picking. We we them. We multiplied fractions for our ingredients. The apple crisp was very good. So we went to an apple orchard. We picked apples. We came back and we made things with it. We also made applesauce. And the kids all enjoy that. And you know, learned learned a fifth grade skill which is not in their grade level. This is our outdoor classroom we made. We had morning meeting here. Miss Seminoles husband made it this morning here. We talked about migration and hunting. I found a pine cone outside. Did you know that? No. Pine cones. Seeds only fall off when exposed when in heat. The state tree of Maine is white pine. Pine cones fall off of pine tree. Pine cones can be any size. Pine cones can blend in when it when it's spring. Pine cones have many seats. Bank owns are covered in pine pitch wood attaches seeds to the pine cone. And that's all we had. Did you have any questions? Yeah. Go ahead.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I'm just happy to see you guys are getting out and really letting these guys experience nature and, science in general. I think that we need more of that, and

[10577-33] Unidentified | Bluff Elementary fourth-grade teacher, outdoor education presenter (na | 2019-10-16
PREV> Jason Benware: I'm just happy to see you guys are getting out and really letting these guys experience nature and, science in general. I think that we need more of that, and so on. I'm very pleased to see you're doing it.
TEXT> Yeah, I was just reading an article and it had a really poignant line. And I thought of you guys, kids need to spend more time outdoors rather than sitting in a chair, because they have a lot of time to sit in a chair. Like you guys are all doing tonight. So.. And, and half the time, even though a couple of my kiddos were like, oh yes, I like the swings too. They see their outdoor education as a playground, and they see it as a place where we're still teaching them, and they have no idea that we're integrating it into the curriculum. They just think it's a second reset, which is bonus points for us because the enthusiasm is through the roof. Well thank you, thank you. Did a great job. Yeah. Oh, sorry. Yeah.  Forget about it. Sorry.
NEXT> Dale Chenette: It's just a short slide show that will show some of our not only these classes, but some of the other classes of things that they have gone out and

[10577-35] Unidentified | Bluff Elementary first-grade teacher, outdoor education presenter (nam | 2019-10-16
PREV> Dale Chenette: It's just a short slide show that will show some of our not only these classes, but some of the other classes of things that they have gone out and done.
TEXT> And while he's chewing that up,  it's not a bunny rabbit. Not funny rabbit. Anybody else for? There was a point the kids wanted to put good one. The first one put in dead bugs. So  you're welcome.
NEXT> Dale Chenette: I think that's the the loop through. So again, I want to I just want to thank the board for allowing us to do this. I know the students are

[10577-56] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Opposed? Okay. Moving along. Superintendents. Report. My. My first item.
TEXT> That I have, as you can see from the report, and I  is following up on the student  representatives report. On Tyler's report, I had the opportunity to participate and and observe and actively participate with Principal Barry in the care conference. That was at Colby Sawyer yesterday. It really wasn't a  impressive  event. Student leaders from So-hyun High School started this, I believe, about ten years ago. They have an ethics forum and they have branched out most recently to cure Sarge. They they put this conference together with a group of care, sarge students that they just met in the spring, and it was really the emphasis of it. Is  student, student ethics and student. Governance in in the operations of of schools and of school districts. So that was a Colby Sawyer professor who who  gave a really,  a motivating, speech to students about  being active citizens and involved in civics. This is our group registering with with Principal Barry. And there's Tyler with the with the shirt. He he he wanted people to know that he did wash that in between. Okay.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: As well, even though it was just yesterday. He was just teasing him a little bit. So they, they, and these are the types of forums that the in conversations

[10577-57] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: a motivating, speech to students about being active citizens and involved in civics. This is our group registering with with Principal Barry. And there's Tyler with the with the shirt. He he he wanted people to know that he did wash that in between. Okay.
TEXT> As well, even though it was just yesterday. He was just teasing him a little bit. So they, they, and  these are the types of forums that the in conversations that students had throughout the whole day. This is a group of this my bald spot right there. Okay. A little and a couple other superintendents and 5 or 6 other principals all talking about how to empower students to be active participants in the governance of the school as well as other types of, of programs. And it really was a worthwhile effort. And they have a, hype conference. It's called in.  The acronym is for Hosting Young Philosophical Enthusiasts. They created it, the students did that, and they have a bunch of community based fundraisers and really entrenched  program. They host these and this is a couple of the other tidbits for it. And I know we're a little bit pressed for time. They host these events each year.  They have approximately 1000 students. These are sponsored. And those are at in Durham. Okay. At University of New Hampshire. There are at least five other colleges practicing in this. And what is great for this, particularly for our kids who who want to come back and present, they couldn't get it. Everything ready that we just went yesterday.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But they like to come back and present to this and some of the other events that they're doing with the friends of Rachel and a few other things. So

