[15483-62] Katie Smith Knox | Sixth-grade ELA teacher, Claremont Middle School - self-identifies at  | 2023-12-20
PREV> Russ Fernald: that comes from this, just trying to cram everything into 48 minutes, put more onto the students. I mean, they were they were tired. The kids were tired. They mentally tired. So I just wanted to bring that perspective here to y'all. Briefly. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi, I'm Katie Smith Knox.  I teach Ela sixth grade at the middle school.  I've been at CMS for almost a decade.  This is my eighth year and I've stayed for the kids.  I love them dearly. They are some of the best and most wonderful people that I've worked with. And I would say having been here for as long as I have, the biggest problem that they faced is a lack of consistency in staffing,  which directly correlates to, you know, curriculum test scores, all of those things. I fear that if this schedule change goes through, we already have a big problem in the district with retaining teachers.  That's nationwide.  That consistency is going to just completely bottom out, fall through.  I feel that the kids will suffer from this because the staff is going to choose to leave.  I. Am very much worried about it, and I worry about it every year. And this is probably the most that I, I have worried about it in the years that I've been here, and I just wanted to make sure that that was noted. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[15483-72] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the meeting to order at segment  | 2023-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: I'll stand as show of support. Okay.
TEXT> Thank you so much for coming out and thank you for your patience. It's greatly appreciated. And thank you for all you do for the students in the district. Truly.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[15483-81] Matt Upton | Attorney for the Claremont School Board (Drummond Woodsum) - CHAIR'S R | 2023-12-20
PREV> Matt Upton: with how the building is being used. The restrictions on how the building is used are really state requirements that come from state to state funds that are being poured in to build a and renovate these buildings. These are state requirements, not federal requirements.
TEXT> All the things that talk about exclusive use or use by the CTE  program programing  are all state requirements. They all exist. Neither state statutes or administrative rules. They're not part of the Perkins five  grant, which is one of the larger grants. As a matter of reference, last year, the state doled out little over $6.5 million of Perkins five money. All the Perkins five money is is governed by a four year plan that's put together by the state. That four year plan is in the process of being, reintroduced beginning in 2024. The current plan runs through the end of 2023. What criteria they will put in that plan? I can't tell you because it's not it's not available. But the past criteria for grants under Perkins five have really focused on performance, which really relates to student enrollment and student interests, which once again, if we lose the identity of the center,  are we going to impact negatively impact student interest? Beyond that, I had a very interesting discussion about the utilization of the facility for non CTE uses and whether those non CTE uses could actually spur additional programing for students at the center.
NEXT> Matt Upton: One of the examples I talked to Mr. Beard about is down in Georgia, where Georgia school districts were having a problem with storage of files, and documents and curriculum,

[15483-92] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the meeting to order at segment  | 2023-12-20
PREV> Matt Upton: need. Other areas. I think if you're going to dive in at that level, you know, 20 to 40% of the facility being used for other purposes, you might want to really think about whether you want to just do the associated programing as well.
TEXT> I have one more question. Is there any way there could be hybrid utilization of the tech center without violating the spirit of  the RSA? And what I mean by that is, the city of Claremont has received a very large grant, which is for workforce development. And if we could utilize some of that grant money or come into a partnership with the city without attaching the school budget. You. Know, so we could provide a lot of opportunity that would be budget neutral,  but opportunity positive to our students and to the community. How would that be viewed since it would be funded from an external source?
NEXT> Matt Upton: So the, the, the whole exclusivity thing and the whole focus on on how the facility is being used is really state driven because the state provided the funding for

[15483-167] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; CHAIR of the Finance Committee - C | 2023-12-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: A second. Anybody have any questions or comments for a discussion for you?
TEXT> I agree with what the superintendent said about this is phase one. There are a lot of ideas on on creating some tiers within this  additional tiers. As I shared last night, I'd like to see us,  try to attract retired teachers,  perhaps to bridge that gap between retirement and social Security and have good, benefits for people that are certified teachers, as well as young people who have college degrees trying to decide if they wanted to education or not. Try to entice people with that. And so there's more to be done. But I think this is a good start.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And so just to reiterate, we're going to be looking again at the contract next year.

[15483-210] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; CHAIR of the Finance Committee - C | 2023-12-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: take a deep breath and support initiatives that support our staff, professional development and otherwise. So we've really slog through it. And the administrative team has slogged through it with us. We've had multiple presentations and, we're looking forward to the public hearing in third.
TEXT> And I just jump in before candy. But, you know, one of the things I said before every meeting is that our, our task is to, is to create funding for programs for the kids. And at the same time, with the sensitivity to the taxpayer's ability to pay. So that's a that's a very difficult walk to walk. So we had that in mind. And I'm going to continue to look at it a little bit even in the future, some more. So.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I would just like to say thank you to the staff for, for all their hard work. We've had several litigations. Each time we meet, we get a different version.

[15505-26] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - he opens the administrative team's  | 2024-01-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: But with our amazing teachers teaching kids and as the both the finance committee and the other board members I mentioned, and we have mentioned to we have great teachers and we want them in front of kids, not necessarily doing other types of duties.
TEXT> So  when you look at the social studies teachers and this is and I'll, I'll go through this and I'll let Mr.. Jump off as well. But if you we currently have seven social studies teachers and you might be saying why do we have seven? It's because  Principal Romeo in his team in you know, they couldn't. They needed to fill classes. So when they couldn't find the  science teachers and the math teachers that we were sure they  had a civics class in there because they knew the kids needed it for graduation, they could get another social studies teacher. And that's that's what they did. So  so we actually have seven there. We can reduce three of those again to get to for social studies teachers. And you see the corresponding numbers.  Within math and this is math and science. And I'll give you the numbers and then I'll let Mr. Kosky talk about it. Historically we only have 4.6 math teachers now. So that's why it says it's only a reduction to go to four for next year.  And there's also  and we need to add a science teacher now because we don't have  we only have three science teachers.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And that's when we talked about some of the online learning and switching the semesters and what they tried to get creative when they couldn't find the teachers. That was

[15505-27] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - he opens the administrative team's  | 2024-01-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we only have 4.6 math teachers now. So that's why it says it's only a reduction to go to four for next year. And there's also and we need to add a science teacher now because we don't have we only have three science teachers.
TEXT> And that's when we talked about some of the online learning and switching the semesters and what they tried to get creative when they couldn't find the teachers. That was also  it's been a problem. So with this, basically the core subjects teach five classes in one enrichment. The specialist teachers already  there doesn't need to be a change in their schedules. They already see a whole complement of of all of the students. So  that would be a another  byproduct of this is obviously I'm stating it again, but I added it in there.  We're going from three classes to six classes parallel to the high school schedule.  You have professionally certified teachers subbing less and teaching more the kids, and in some cases, fewer kids in a class in the substitute teachers. When we estimated Mary ran some numbers about where we are now, extrapolating it to the end of the year would also be a savings of about $14,000 that we pay out by contract for them to cover.  But we feel in the sub line that we already have used comparative to the high school,  that we still adequately have enough in that sublime.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, for us, it just seems like the most fiscally responsible thing to do for the whole district. And again, not this is not, we knew that all of the

[15505-137] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - he opens the administrative team's  | 2024-01-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Their class sizes will be small.
TEXT> And their class sizes will be parallel to the elementary upper classes. The fourth and fifth grade classes. In some cases, the upper elementaries  are in the 20s, you know, early 20s, 20, 21, same as theirs in their classes, as you see from the projection in the actual right now are all around 18. So I think it's fair we you always want to keep the class sizes low and  obviously have the best certified experience teacher in front of the kids. That's no rocket science there. But I do think, what I like about this is the focus on  getting the core academics, particularly getting out earlier, trying to get the best science and math as well, just like everyone else. I, I do think our, our, our contract, our teachers contract now, as well as some of our other contracts for total compensation are  among the most competitive in the region, right up there with  Lev and some other comps that we have been working hard to to get to. So it's a it's a good it's a it's a fair. I think it's a fair assignment. Parallel to the high school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So it sounds to me, Bonnie, that you would like us to make sure that we come to the board with a clear explanation of why this is, well, academically

[15505-138] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - she gavels in ('I'm calling the Januar | 2024-01-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: competitive in the region, right up there with Lev and some other comps that we have been working hard to to get to. So it's a it's a good it's a it's a fair. I think it's a fair assignment. Parallel to the high school.
TEXT> So it sounds to me, Bonnie, that you would like us to make sure that we come to the board with a clear explanation of why this is, well, academically benefit our students, not just for parity reasons, but other reasons, because it sounds like our parity isn't where  we're unequivocal right now as far as,  teaching duties, but it still sounds like what what you heard. Correct me if I'm wrong.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: I just want to make. Sure that. I heard answering questions. They would get less classroom time for a time in classes, and that was a big concern. And I

[15505-141] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member - 'how they feel is important to us. But | 2024-01-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, well, because they get the class. We don't.
TEXT> Yeah. You know,  how they feel is important to us. But of course what happens to the children in the classes and the structure is, is more so.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I hear you.

[15505-264] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023 to the one-year seat) | 2024-01-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: people stationed in the academic centers, real certified teachers, which we don't have currently. You know, we so that's that's a big plus. So maybe they want to look at that and I would be supportive of that. I, I trust their judgment with that.
TEXT> So because the reason why I wonder is that if, if there were class, if there were schedule changes that could be made that didn't send her or focus on changing the class size, you know, if like if we were focusing on changing the schedule for the sake of efficiency, getting the students access to the courses, they need budget efficiencies, but not necessarily focusing so much on class size, because that doesn't seem to be an existing challenge in the in this context. Or is it?
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah, yeah.

[15505-280] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and CHAIR of the SAU | 2024-01-03
PREV> Mary Henry: Thank you for that.
TEXT> My other pieces about the coaches for the elementary level, if there's any way, shape or form we can have that happen because we put a lot of emphasis on the elementary schools.  And in order to sustain the growth and the professional growth that we can see, I think if there's any way at all we can have that through grant money or whatever it may be. I think that conversation is really important. Sure. Also the professional development, I noticed that we have removed some support and replacing them with paraprofessionals, and I believe that Paras are fabulous support for a classroom. I also believe we need to provide professional development as to the role and strategies for people working at all of the levels, whatever they may be. So I think that's an important component.  And as a former middle school teacher,  I am going to  ask about not the class sizes, but just making sure that we are maintaining the middle school focus.  I know we need parity in class sizes and so on, but a middle school is very different from a high school and a junior high, and I'm hoping that there's opportunity for our middle school people to really see other middle schools in operation to gain the positives that happen in a middle school. It's a wonderful experience. I just think that we need to remember that focus for our students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: To teams. Ever go to Nelmes, to the middle school? I have worked at home and.

[15505-343] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - he opens the administrative team's  | 2024-01-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> So they, they didn't do this one. The only  when I spoke to them, I just said, well, you could make one. And at one point Frank said, well just tell me what you want to make. And I said, this is, this is what I think would be the most similar to the high school. This is where I think we could, find, say and no, particularly what when I did the analysis of it, what struck me the most was in those core content areas we still we didn't have like, how did they do? How did they get by this year with so few math teachers? And I looked and I and they were teaching five and six and I'm like,  you know, such a genius that I was like, wow, what if we could do that the other way? You know, we we could do it pretty quickly. So, thanks. And also that the special stitchers were all teaching. They weren't they weren't teaching, you know, 55 kids. They were teaching 120, 150 kids and, well, all the kids in health, one.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Teacher now that are doing the schedule that you're proposing. Yeah, that the administration team is in that school.

[15505-374] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District (started early July  | 2024-01-03
PREV> Mike Koski: Yes.
TEXT> And we send notices home with the kids.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Oh, yeah. Sure. Robo calls and the whole.

[15510-3] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - Candace Craw | 2024-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Over.
TEXT> To you. That sounds good.  So at the at the meeting on Wednesday, we did a brief review with the board where we didn't do an official presentation, but there was  a question or we it was noticed that we were providing,  teacher coaching at both CMS,  Claremont Middle School and Stevens High School, but we did not build into the budget or it was not built into the budget, that the elementary schools would have the same services. So personally, I find that valuable. And I think with the level of teacher turnover that we have and with our historical hiring practices of getting a lot of young new teachers into the district, we are often a a platform for  teachers, young teachers coming out of school that to provide  what we need to do for our students, that we need to make sure every teacher is up to speed. And I'm asked,  Michael Kosky to kind of give us his impression, which it seemed last meeting, that it was favorable, that this is something that we should do. And for me, I would like to look at an opportunity to find money in the budget or for the board to consider finding money in the budget to provide those services to our teachers at the elementary schools, when we have clear evidence that our elementary schools are struggling quite a bit. So  sorry to put you on the spot.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: No.

[15510-585] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - Heather Whitney coins a shorthand f | 2024-01-05
PREV> Mary Henry: This is at the.
TEXT> The the arc room is not special Ed. The arc room is for all kids drop in center and other assistant.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No, I get that. But so we have five pairs manning that five general education pairs manning that.

[15531-11] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 to the March 2024 e | 2024-01-17
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Moving on. I do not see that we have any student board  member representatives present tonight. So we'll move on to the superintendent's report. And  I would like to, on behalf of the board and the Claremont School community, welcome Mr. Pratt to  his first school board meeting as interim superintendent.  We're very fortunate to have in our district an administrator  who has been a superintendent for eight years and has the experience to lead us through this tumultuous time. And so we thank you very much.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: You're welcome. So I think tonight, based on the agenda, I want to go back and and go through a few things that, Superintendent Tempesta had gone through before. And

[15531-16] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6, six days into the job - the  | 2024-01-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: So can you speak to the schedule. At all?
TEXT> So so so based on on the schedule. And I was trying to  speak further with  the middle school principal in regards to that. Is that going to the going to a seventh? I would like to hold off on a switch in the schedule up for next year for the middle school. Give us time for myself to work with,  the principal and the teachers to actually find something going to work, because I think at this time, flicking the switch that quick, it's going to really set back the education of the students with that kind of disruption. So I'd like to just to maybe put the the seventh period schedule on the back burner to really give us time to look at what we can do to get the most out of time on learning in the classrooms, rather than just saying, okay, we're going to hit to a seven period schedule, we'll figure it out. I don't want to build the plane as we're flying it, so I'm asking it. The board gives a little leeway for us to work together as a team to come up with what best schedule for these kids at about the middle school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So we do not need to vote on this. We can give Mr. Pratt the executive authority to operate and make those schedule as he sees fit. If there's. Yes.

[15531-25] Courtney Porter | School social worker, Claremont School District; McKinney-Vento liaiso | 2024-01-17
PREV> Unidentified: On the.
TEXT> Thanks, guys. So real quick, just a history about where did we come from with school social workers. Again, in 2013, Elaine Arbor hired me.  It was the first ever school social worker that came into this district. And Elaine's like, hi, great welcome. Great. This program. And so what I did was I don't face first in and I created something that we have now come to which I think is a really cool thing. In 2020 we were able to hire a elementary school social worker. Yes. In the height of the of the Covid pandemic. Let's hire a school social worker. Let's figure some things out. So and then I was actually moved. So because of, of just some things that were happening at the high school, they're like, you know what, let's move here from the middle school up to the high school. And it worked out well because I was taking some of the students that I had worked with for many years, and then I was able to work with them at the high school.  And then we got a new school social worker at the middle school in 2021.  She is currently still a  someone who's going through the  statement of eligibility  statement of eligibility process.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: So she isn't like fully licensed as a school social worker yet, but she's doing a great job getting there. This fall, our elementary school social worker actually became the

[15531-27] Courtney Porter | School social worker, Claremont School District; McKinney-Vento liaiso | 2024-01-17
PREV> Courtney Porter: district, I'm actually the president of the New Hampshire School Social Workers Association, and I'm a member of the admin team of the School Social Workers Association of America, which is like the, the, the NSA, the all the other organizations that look over folks.
TEXT> And so the the first two documents that you'll see, actually the first three documents that you'll see here are all,  they're completely vetted, peer reviewed journal documents that will give you as much information as you could possibly need about what does a school social worker do? How do we address not only mental health needs, but their academic needs? And then what is our role and how do we work in a really great way with school counselors, with our school psychologist?  Ben Nasser and I have worked very closely over the past several years to have the new the Sussex Mental health team. And so we've created a  pyramid model about how are we all at pyramid one, pyramid two, pyramid three, and how our how is not only the school district, but the community and the teachers and everyone coming together to support the mental health needs of our students. A couple other things that you will see in there that I'm going to talk about a little bit when I get into data is,  a spell packet and a Senate bill. 282 so back in 2020, Governor Chris Sununu had put out a Senate bill that required that all schools look at how are we addressing not only the mental health needs of students, but the suicidal ideation?
NEXT> Courtney Porter: And what does that look like? So Senate Bill 282 charged us as a district in every district in this state to create a process where we had a building

[15531-28] Courtney Porter | School social worker, Claremont School District; McKinney-Vento liaiso | 2024-01-17
PREV> Courtney Porter: is, a spell packet and a Senate bill. 282 so back in 2020, Governor Chris Sununu had put out a Senate bill that required that all schools look at how are we addressing not only the mental health needs of students, but the suicidal ideation?
TEXT> And what does that look like? So Senate Bill 282 charged us as a district in every district in this state to create a process where we had a building suicide prevention liaison. So myself, along with  Ray Curran and Paige McClay, created what we now call our BS packet. So on a regular basis, we are constantly trying to figure out how  we addressing mental health in a way that is making sure that our children are safe. We only have our students for 6.5 hours a day. That is such a small portion of time, but we know that when they're not with us, the things that are happening outside of those 6.5 hours are directly impacting that 6.5 hours that we have them. And so we have created a process to make sure that if a student says something, does something that we are like on, on, on, on it, on it next. So let's look at data. I'm going to throw a whole bunch of numbers at you guys. But because I know that this is what you want to see, this is the data. So part of my role as a school social workers, also the McKinney Vento liaison. So for folks who might not be aware, McKinney Vento is a federal law that requires that every school district in the United States provides immediate and automatic enrollment to students who are experiencing homelessness.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: And so sometimes when we think about homelessness, if you're not familiar with the term, you might think, oh, people living in a box under a bridge or like this

[15531-30] Courtney Porter | School social worker, Claremont School District; McKinney-Vento liaiso | 2024-01-17
PREV> Courtney Porter: be you're a single mom living with some friends. You might be a single dad living with your parents. It might be that your two people who don't really know each other, but you both need to make sure that you have a house together.
TEXT> And so doubled up is the hugest number of what we have for students who are experiencing homelessness in our district. D.C. wife calls. So another part of my job as a DC point of contact is I monitor every single DC wife call that is made in our district. So last year we had 161 calls and so I broke it all down for you. I took the opportunity to break it down by school, break it down by reason. But let's also look at like breaking it down by identified. So we have children who have an IEP who were at 43%. These numbers are staggering. So we need to recognize that by having school social workers in our district who can work with these students, whether it be the four children at the early Childhood program or the 55 children at Claremont Middle School. Each and every one of those children needs a champion who's going to be able to take care of them, because it might be anywhere. It might be physical abuse, it might be devastating violence. But if you think about the fact that if you have had to have a call made to DC  because of something that happens outside of those 6.5 hours that you're at school.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: Can you imagine what's actually happening? How can you actually function as a really great student if the things that are happening to you outside of the 6.5 hours fall

[15531-37] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 to the March 2024 e | 2024-01-17
PREV> Courtney Porter: of the day, school social workers remove those barriers because that's what we're trained for. And just additional support. So I don't I'm I guess if you kind of know me, I'm Courtney, I have Courtney's closet. You guys might have heard of that before.
TEXT> Would you mind? I'm sorry to interrupt you, but, What I what I'm hoping we can communicate is we are trying to respond to the principals. The elementary school. Principals request for social workers at the elementary school level. And what is communicated to the board is that there was there's a tremendous burden that is placed on the principals and assistant principals or folks that are in the schools right now, and that it would be a benefit to the children academically and social, emotionally, to have additional social workers in the district. Can you speak specifically to how you would be relieving those burdens that are being weighed upon the administrators?
NEXT> Courtney Porter: So I work ridiculously close with Melissa Lewis. And so when I think about students who are experiencing homelessness, so, so if Melissa Lewis, she might send me an email.

[15531-38] Courtney Porter | School social worker, Claremont School District; McKinney-Vento liaiso | 2024-01-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: the schools right now, and that it would be a benefit to the children academically and social, emotionally, to have additional social workers in the district. Can you speak specifically to how you would be relieving those burdens that are being weighed upon the administrators?
TEXT> So I work ridiculously close with Melissa Lewis. And so when I think about students who are experiencing homelessness, so,  so if Melissa Lewis, she might send me an email. She's like, she's like, oh gosh, I got this family. They're not sure how they're going to get their kids to school. Can we can we figure this out? The school social worker will jump in and figure out, okay, is it a McKinney Vento? Do we need to do transportation? Is it that they need to be at a different school, and that we need to be the liaison between that other school? It might be that Melissa has a student who she's like, Courtney, I'm just finding that this student every day at lunchtime on Thursday is breaking down and I'm not sure what's going on. So the school social worker could then come in and have a lunch group. Would that student be like, I'm curious what's happening today on Thursdays? I'm like, you did well on on Wednesday and you do well on Friday. I wonder what's happening on Thursday. What's happening today? It could be that there are students who Melissa's like, I don't know what to do.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: He comes to school every day and he doesn't have a coat and he doesn't have boots, and he's just he's crying and he's sad. And so then the school

[15531-57] Rick Elliott | Instructional coach, Stevens High School; former Fall Mountain mathema | 2024-01-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: You've grown.
TEXT> Up that, it was amazing because  I was asked by the principal and like any good junior at the time, I was like, sure, whatever you need me to do. Until she told me a lawyer was involved. And then I was concerned about my parents being involved.  I gladly took part in that lawsuit. I got to speak  at the state House before I was looking for a job. I was a senior at Keene State. I was doing quite well. I went, I testified,  I came out to Concord monitor was waiting for me. I think you folks know where this is going. They asked me if Stevens High School was looking for a math position. Would you accept the position? I didn't have a job yet. There wasn't a room at the end at Stevens at the time, but I had to think. And I said, well, if the walls were still falling down because in 91 the walls were falling down.  If the  lab was leaking,  if the books were from the 1950s, if they didn't have graphing calculators, I would find it very difficult to meet the needs of the kids. Stevens High School I thought I did well next day, front page  Concord monitor x Stevens grad says no thank you to hometown.
NEXT> Rick Elliott: So they hired me at Fall Mountain for 26 years. But at at the time that this position became available, it wasn't this position. It was actually a method of

[15531-59] Rick Elliott | Instructional coach, Stevens High School; former Fall Mountain mathema | 2024-01-17
PREV> Rick Elliott: everything from can you please get me a cord so that my smart board works to how do you deal specifically with this behavior issue? I wanted to talk to Coach Sprague tonight because he was my coach when I was at that high school.
TEXT> And the analogy that I could give you right now is that there is so much coaching that can happen, and there are so many people who are willing to be coached. This is a blessed place to work with an incredible community that cares deeply about its kids. You cannot ask for a more active audience than that captivated audience. I have people in this room who are at a significantly different pay grade than I, who have asked my opinion on how we need our vision for these children if we want data. Here's my goal I just turned 50. By the time I walk away from you folks, I want us above the state average in the math SATs, the English SATs, and the essay the sass and science. That's where I want us. Why? Because those kids can do it and those teachers can do it. They just need support. They just need help. They need enthusiasm. They need that cheerleader every single day to let them know they can do it. And they need someone like me to help them know that those statistics get in the way of their ability to educate kids.
NEXT> Rick Elliott: Because, again, I was blessed with a meal on my table every day and a mom and dad that loved me dearly. Some of our teachers don't recognize this. Some

[15531-60] Rick Elliott | Instructional coach, Stevens High School; former Fall Mountain mathema | 2024-01-17
PREV> Rick Elliott: They just need help. They need enthusiasm. They need that cheerleader every single day to let them know they can do it. And they need someone like me to help them know that those statistics get in the way of their ability to educate kids.
TEXT> Because, again, I was blessed with a meal on my table every day and a mom and dad that loved me dearly. Some of our teachers don't recognize this. Some of these kids haven't eaten all week, and some of these kids are protecting their siblings from predators in their homes, and they wonder why the kids are falling asleep in class. It's a different world that we're teaching it, and we need to empower our teachers with the strategies, the tactics and the technology we have the leadership. You cannot hire better people than you hired. Congratulations, by the way. Cannot hire better people than you've hired. You've done your job and now we're holding them accountable. All they want is what's best for kids. So that's my job is to do everything I can to empower teachers. So I'll teach you I'll teach you just a couple of things, and I'll let you ask me any question that you want. I've coached a number of state championship teams. I've coached a number of individual state champions. You have to approach every single student, every single adult, every board member differently.
NEXT> Rick Elliott: We all have different needs. You have to have a plan. We have a vision. We're unified in that vision. That's a great starting point. We have to do what's

[15531-89] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 to the March 2024 e | 2024-01-17
PREV> Rick Elliott: Are you next? Alex I'll put it up here. Oh.
TEXT> Gradually moving on to an update from Mr. Kosky  on student achievement. And, before you get up, we do want to thank you very much for being the captain of our curriculum ship and for shepherding us in the right direction.
NEXT> Unidentified: Sure.

[15531-102] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'moving on to a | 2024-01-17
PREV> Mike Koski: shows the overlap about the instructional practices and how they they all intersect. And it's part of the reason that the coaching role is so important. Because if Rick's background is math, but those same techniques are needed in L.A. and they're needed in science.
TEXT> And the same for an Ela coach. How to create an argument, how to prepare questions. All those kinds of stuff  are in all of the subject areas. And so this this diagram is kind of our guide for how we attack that instructional process.  And then finally, if you scroll down a little bit to oh, go back up just a little bit there, some examples. The poster that Rick was holding is in every classroom in Claremont. It came out of our math professional development this past summer with Derek Staves. And we we realized that those techniques needed to be visible for teachers, and they were common across content areas. And so we created the posters use grant money, and we put that poster in every classroom for teachers to be able to see. As a reminder, our coaches refer to them. We call that a countable talk, where the person doing the speaking is the person doing the thinking, and if it's the teacher doing all the work and the students are just sitting there, we don't know what they know or what they're thinking. And so we need to get to the students to speak.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And those instructional tips are to, to do that, just that. We're also looking to get students to do higher level thinking, apply critique, analyze situations. And so they create

[15531-103] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'moving on to a | 2024-01-17
PREV> Mike Koski: the speaking is the person doing the thinking, and if it's the teacher doing all the work and the students are just sitting there, we don't know what they know or what they're thinking. And so we need to get to the students to speak.
TEXT> And those instructional tips are to, to do that, just that.  We're also looking to get students to do higher level thinking, apply critique, analyze situations. And so they create solutions. We want our students to be consumers. I'm sorry. We know students be producers rather than consumers. Just sit and eat and drink all day long information. They have to do something with it. And so we want them to be able to produce and  we need to also work on communicating those learning goals to our students. Some reason there's an extra bullet there. I apologize for that. And so the other piece is this idea of application over memorization. Assessment wise, we have larger benchmarks. We're quarterly or three times a year. We're checking student progress. But then we also  are creating common assessments so that all of third grade using the same assessments. Then we can do comparative analysis to make sure  and see how students are progressing through there. We're also beginning classroom walkthroughs to  along with the coaches. But administration is going to be walking through the classrooms checking on these instructional practices that are now common to all the classrooms.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And we want to start collecting data on that to and not to as a gotcha moment or anything like that. But, oh, we went through classrooms and in 20

[15531-107] Kat McLaughlin | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 (started ~8/1/2023) - Mike Koski brings her | 2024-01-17
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: is so important. K through 12 Teach United. We've been lucky. I've been working with the two instructional coaches. We have a teaching coach coaching us. We're engaging in some really deep conversations about what is instructional practice look like. If you're an instructional coach.
TEXT> And how do we create an environment that allows teachers to come forward and say, hey, I need help with or I'm struggling with, right, like  I'm struggling with my classroom management or I'm struggling with,  reaching a few of these kids that I know are struggling. Like, do you have any suggestions for me? So that's part of the job that instructional coaches do. So we've got support to like ideally everybody should be supported by someone. Right? We have ongoing instructional and classroom management working from the outside.  We're getting Derek. Steve's to give us a little different perspective regarding what math instruction could look like if if we're bringing in those instructional practices where kids are doing the talking, then kids will be doing more learning. So that's exciting.  Polly Bathurst helping us with our classroom management strategies, which we know that we have a lot of high needs kids in this in this district. We know they have a lot of potential. It's a matter, again, of shifting our instructional practices in our  our practices in terms of how we deal with our students, how do we speak with our students? Polly Barth also really supports responsive classroom practices. So it's a deeper dive into the social emotional learning,  and the strategies that really support our kids.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: Accountable talk. I cannot say this enough. I've implemented this or work to implement it as an instructional coach in multiple districts. So I am so excited that this is

[15531-108] Kat McLaughlin | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 (started ~8/1/2023) - Mike Koski brings her | 2024-01-17
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: our our practices in terms of how we deal with our students, how do we speak with our students? Polly Barth also really supports responsive classroom practices. So it's a deeper dive into the social emotional learning, and the strategies that really support our kids.
TEXT> Accountable talk. I cannot say this enough. I've implemented this or work to implement it as an instructional coach in multiple districts.  So I am so excited that this is what is coming here. Because again, if our students are doing the talking, they will be doing the learning and we should see that pay off.  We are working on the math and Ela curriculum committees, wit and wisdom. I think our teachers are doing a great job implementing that. You're going to see the benefit of that within 2 to 3 years. It takes time. It's a lot for teachers.  I recently took a couple teachers to visit the elementary schools in Amesbury, in Massachusetts, and in every district that I've talked to where people have implemented it. It's a lot because there's so much rich material that it's a matter of,  teachers selecting what they think is most appropriate. But we also know that the pay off after that, the what I've seen in classrooms is that engagement goes up, student learning increases. Teachers love what they're doing because they know they're having an impact. So we're looking to select a new math program  more closely aligned to the standards, again, to give our teachers a similar quality resource, similar to wit and wisdom, but for math, right.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: Something more aligned to the standards that will help them, help our students reach their potential. We've got, the report card again, looking at standards and the learning targets that

[15531-109] Kat McLaughlin | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 (started ~8/1/2023) - Mike Koski brings her | 2024-01-17
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: Teachers love what they're doing because they know they're having an impact. So we're looking to select a new math program more closely aligned to the standards, again, to give our teachers a similar quality resource, similar to wit and wisdom, but for math, right.
TEXT> Something more aligned to the standards that will help them,  help our students reach their potential. We've got,  the report card again, looking at standards and the learning targets that we want students to know. Producing that in student friendly language in an I can kind of format, like I can write an essay or I can write effectively  or,  I can demonstrate an understanding of fractions. So that way the students understand the learning target because we write it in student friendly language. That's another way to help increase student engagement, because now they know what what they should be doing and what they should be focused on.  And then finally, we have. I think some of you may have received copies of the district newsletter that we're producing. We're trying to create more communication between the Dow and the schools.  And if we create something that's engaging or helpful for teachers, like, here's a quick video from Polly Beth, because we're continuing to work on that. Right. Just like little reminders and then posting things like, hey, we just had a baby at one of these schools, we should be celebrating that. Like, ultimately, a school district is a human organization made of human beings that we should be recognizing the major events in a in a person's life. So we want to have,  that communication with the schools as well. Questions?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Of course I have a question. Okay. So I always have.

[15531-117] Kat McLaughlin | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 (started ~8/1/2023) - Mike Koski brings her | 2024-01-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. And your your your your enthusiasm. Infectious too. It's just different. We can we can tell that you're excited and thank you for that.
TEXT> I will say that I love working in this district because I know that,  I know that I can have an impact on on the kids here. Right? That's why we all do what we do, right?
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

[15531-119] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'moving on to a | 2024-01-17
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Thanks, cat.  And so just want to make a point. Kat mentioned it, but these initiatives and things we're putting in place, I hope this doesn't come across sounding like an excuse, but it's two years to see results. It's a year to put it into place. And at a very minimum, the next year of students get the full program and that's when you see results. So, for example, if things we've done in 22, 23, we're going to see results in 24, 25. That's when we expect to see the the wit and wisdom and the improved reading scores and engaged, better engaged writing. So here we have we've been collecting data K to five for our students in reading and math.  And I'd like you to note early grades very much score highly and just about on grade level everybody. And as we go through those grades, we start to see a decline.  So here's bluffs fall reading Mark. Grade K and grade one C 2%. And as and you'll see this trend in each of the schools in each of the subjects. And so we we start off a really grades which is a great signal right. It means our kids are coming in prepared.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Our teachers can meet them. They can access the curriculum. Where we have to work on our improvement is in these later grades, so that we maintain that on grade

[15531-120] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'moving on to a | 2024-01-17
PREV> Mike Koski: and grade one C 2%. And as and you'll see this trend in each of the schools in each of the subjects. And so we we start off a really grades which is a great signal right. It means our kids are coming in prepared.
TEXT> Our teachers can meet them. They can access the curriculum. Where we have to work on our improvement is in these later grades, so that we maintain that on grade level as the students move through the different grades.  We will have winter results for this beginning of February.  Mid-February. Mid-February, I think. And so we'll come back and we'll be able to compare  our fall benchmark with our winter benchmark and see those results. And that's the end of that.  And then we will do a spring  test to get that year's growth.  When we have students who are in the red. Those students and their teachers need to get that student more than a year's worth of growth. So they're now two grades behind. And so they need to make more than a year worth of growth, more than a predicted amount of growth in order to begin to catch up. And so we really want to start to prevent this red area from occurring as the students move through the gates.  And so this type of data becomes really useful.  We can break this down to the student level. And so our teachers know which students are doing  and need which types of interventions. And then our title one teachers use this data along with other data.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And they start to craft where the weaknesses are and how they can intervene there. So we'll be back in a couple of weeks with more information. I just want

[15531-126] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023); member of the Fin | 2024-01-17
PREV> Mike Koski: Yeah. And this is where we've we've seen the biggest change because of the different the improved phonics and phonemic type of instruction foundations. And if you've heard those names, that's where that's showing up in those early grades.
TEXT> And I think that, you know, I think there was some bad publicity a couple of months ago about our scores  in our elementary schools. And I know the community is concerned about that. I think having this data come regularly to the board  is very helpful for the community to see that we are focusing on achievement of the kids, and that it is beginning to look better.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yes.

[15531-144] Lee Malloy | Lead teacher, the Academy (the district's alternative-education progra | 2024-01-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah.
TEXT> Cause I was like, I'm not gonna say anything because I know that what I'm hearing, I. I know his setup. Okay, so,  Lee Malloy, lead teacher at what we are calling the academy.  We're trying to move away from the term alternative as best that we possibly can. So what I wanted to do for you all was to just give you a cap on a little recap on how we are doing and kind of what our data looks like so far this year. So let's see if I can figure out how to maneuver this thing since I left it up here with me. Okay.  So I'm just going to do a program data review pass and failed data attendance record discipline, record log entries related to behaviors. And then I'm going to hand it off to Mr. Pratt and Mr. Nester or. So here you can see what I gather this data off of is we have currently 12 students. And I did this off of ten. Two of the students were not Stephen's High School students last year, so I didn't want to collect any. Obviously, I didn't have any data to collect from. So our past fail rates last year we were at a 65% of fail and rate, now were at a 3% fail on courses.
NEXT> Lee Malloy: So in the 22, 23 year, you'll see that they, the ten students passed 34 classes, and failed 30 or 63 this year so far. And actually, since I've created

[15531-157] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6, six days into the job - the  | 2024-01-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you.
TEXT> So  I wanted. The opportunity just to expand on it more as being the principal at the high school. And what we're seeing from, from this program is a bunch of things we're seeing, you know, a lot of these students, it's not that they couldn't learn, it's just that the environment that they were at the high school was just too much. I mean, it's not an environment for everyone. So by having the academy, we're able to provide these students with another setting that they can thrive in. And as you can see, they're all three of, you know, a lot of these kids that, before entered the academy were at the high school. There was a constant issue going on to to avoid learning, being in the hallways, causing disruptions. And it was and it was solely because  of the size of the environment they were in. It was causing anxieties. It was causing the stressors. You know, and every time I've  come over here and I've checked on and seeing the progress that they're making, but not just the progress, as you can see from the data, but just the overall.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: You can see it in their physical appearance. You can see it in their attitude. I mean, they're enjoying learning and they're enjoying education. Again, if we didn't have this

[15531-158] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6, six days into the job - the  | 2024-01-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: It was causing anxieties. It was causing the stressors. You know, and every time I've come over here and I've checked on and seeing the progress that they're making, but not just the progress, as you can see from the data, but just the overall.
TEXT> You can see it in their physical appearance. You can see it in their attitude. I mean, they're enjoying learning and they're enjoying education. Again, if we didn't have this program, I would say a lot of these kids, just based on the data they would have through the town because they were constantly in trouble. They just couldn't keep on track. I mean, I've never seen so much progress in a program in such a short time. And just if you had the opportunity just to see the difference in the demeanor in these kids, it's all because of the Academy and what we're able to provide for them. You know, the learning at their own pace, their learning skills above and beyond what they would get in the classroom. They learn how to bank and check the checking account. They do cooking up there so they know how to prepare them, prepare meals, you know, for one person and two person. It's more about we're teaching them the soft skills they need to be successful. We're teaching them how to deal with difficult situations, how to have, instead of a confrontation, an adult conversation.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We're teaching them the skills they need to be successful in life. And I think that's so important because I think nine times out of ten, even in any school

[15531-159] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6, six days into the job - the  | 2024-01-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: prepare them, prepare meals, you know, for one person and two person. It's more about we're teaching them the soft skills they need to be successful. We're teaching them how to deal with difficult situations, how to have, instead of a confrontation, an adult conversation.
TEXT> We're teaching them the skills they need to be successful in life. And I think that's so important because I think nine times out of ten, even in any school setting, we're missing the soft skills that the kids need to be successful in life, because we all know going out into the real world, you can be the smartest person in the room. You can have all the degrees, but if you don't know how to work as a team, you don't know how to hold yourself accountable. You don't know how to deal with difficult situations and talk to people. It doesn't matter how smart you are, you're not going to be able to hold a job. And that's what this program is doing. It's providing opportunities for these kids, and it's still challenging to them. And I think sometimes it's surprising themselves. Yeah,  sometimes you can say, you know, sometimes it's it's more difficult to work in smaller groups because you're closest to the people in that class, but they're doing it. And it's like, I've seen such a change in the student's attitude just about school, because now we're meeting them where they are.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's this program is student driven. It's not adult driven like so many times we see when we're in the schools. So, I mean, I can't say enough good things

[15531-160] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6, six days into the job - the  | 2024-01-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: it's it's more difficult to work in smaller groups because you're closest to the people in that class, but they're doing it. And it's like, I've seen such a change in the student's attitude just about school, because now we're meeting them where they are.
TEXT> It's this program is student driven. It's not adult driven like so many times we see when we're in the schools. So, I mean, I can't say enough good things about what this program has provided and all the work that Lee has done. It's been it's very impressive in the short time that we've had the program. But this is exactly what we need. We need to be able to continue to grow this program for more kids. So I want to thank everyone who is helping out in that program, because we've and the kids that tells me, you know, some of them would have just on the talents and become a statistic and guys dropping out education. So. High school perspective.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[15531-233] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6, six days into the job - the  | 2024-01-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Get your money back because some money back.
TEXT> Just with the money. You know, you're not you're not tying future costs into, the budget. And in a lot of times sometimes, you know, you're in a great space and also you can't afford it anymore. What's the outcome? The kids are going to suffer because now you can't afford to the program to have it right.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I have a question. Something I just thought about with the location, back here, is that going to. I guess it's a question for Doctor Herzog.

[15531-241] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, Claremont School District - CHAIR'S REC | 2024-01-17
PREV> Ben Nester: if the program does remain here, that there's a partnership created between the tech center, visioning Committee, the superintendent, Doctor Herzog, so that the program can continue to operate effectively in that long term, appropriate planning can be done with all interested and effective parties.
TEXT> I suggested a proposal be submitted to the board by December of next year. I also recommend, as an aside, that a visioning committee of sorts is created to look at student needs at the high school level, in particular  moving forward. It's it's it's no, it's no secret that we have a lot of needs at the high school that spoke to earlier and, it's There's a very large demographic that we serve at the high school level. Level that does that does need a lot of support. And so I think that creating a committee would be a wise move. The other two quick things I just want to mention is  perhaps there is some benefit. Alex can weigh on this if he likes, but perhaps there is some benefit to students being geographically near the tech center in terms of boosting CTE enrollment. For students that are near here. And then certainly we're going to see an increase in graduation rate in the coming years with the with the with the program being intact. So those are our recommendations. And we put a lovely slide in there, which I'm just now seeing.
NEXT> Lee Malloy: So I appreciate that, Ben, since you've had it for a couple of weeks.

[15531-270] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 to the March 2024 e | 2024-01-17
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: a good thing, from what I'm hearing, it sounds like the best option on the table is actually to locate the academy at RVC in increasing our contact with our VC, in improving our partnership with them and providing an ideal location for the Academy.
TEXT> Anyone else? I just had a question piggybacking on yours. What about transportation? Would we would provide transportation to RVC or RVC, would provide transportation for our students? We would we would have to. Yeah. How much is a modular?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It doesn't matter because it's one of the things I think to have the modular located in closer proximity to the high school and, and the CTE favors the modular

[15531-279] Lee Malloy | Lead teacher, the Academy (the district's alternative-education progra | 2024-01-17
PREV> Ben Nester: So a little just a little history lesson on this. When I first met Lee, she worked for a state funded program that was housed at RVC, serving a very similar population. So she's very accustomed to. Yeah. You want to talk about what that.
TEXT> Looked like? So I was there. Loved it. It was a little bit of a different program. And so I think we want to take that into consideration. So the students,  really weren't embedded in the high school that much.  And that was coming from surrounding high school. They were really only with me. They were with me for four hours a day. I think there was a great side of that that they we had transportation. They actually took the community bus, which was really nice. I think if what we were trying to do to keep it that, you know, Stevens High School program, having it be that far away, we're really removing them. I know one of the pieces about them being able to even up here, even for the students who are not taking a tech or a high school,  class right now, other students pop up and say hi on their breaks.
NEXT> Lee Malloy: They meet up with their buddies to jump on the bus back and forth. There is also just the piece, and I think we just Courtney just left of you

[15552-14] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; chair of the Parliamentary Procedure ad hoc commit | 2024-02-03
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Thank you. Next we're going to have a presentation. Dear Whitney. First, I'd like to thank everybody for taking time out of your Saturday morning to come to this deliberative sessions. The board this year has chosen to add a little layer on the presentation.
TEXT> We feel it's very important for you to know the why behind the what in this budget. We want you to know it was created to support a singular goal. And that goal is to dramatically improve academic growth and in a way that benefits every student in this district. The programs and positions that this budget supports are there, because the data and the evaluation of that data tells us they should be. Throughout the year, we have listened to our curriculum specialist principals, directors, social workers, instructional specialists, parents, students, and community members. Our decision to support this budget and these initiatives are driven by what we learn from them. So to recap, in order for us to improve student achievement, we need to  continue to aggressively support the implementation of our district wide curriculum. We need to continue to attract and retain the best and brightest staff.  We need to focus on improving teaching and learning practices, and we need to continue to improve school culture and learning environment so our kids are in a stable, emotional place. If they are worried about being bullied or having breakfast. They aren't in a place that they can be focusing on learning. We also want to continue to expand program offerings at sugar River Valley Technical Center. Mister, chair of the.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Finance Committee. It's been my job to sort of wrangle this process. And again, we we're trying to make sure that the ensure that the budget is aligned with district

[15552-15] Frank Sprague | School Board Vice Chair; Finance Committee Chair; board representative | 2024-02-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: a stable, emotional place. If they are worried about being bullied or having breakfast. They aren't in a place that they can be focusing on learning. We also want to continue to expand program offerings at sugar River Valley Technical Center. Mister, chair of the.
TEXT> Finance Committee.  It's been my job to sort of wrangle this process. And again, we we're trying to make sure that the ensure that the budget is aligned with district goals. We have told the administration that,  for example,  things that we put in place, interventions that we had put in place with federal money, the ceremony.  If that was going to continue, we needed to see documentation of success. If we did not see documentation of an effect of that, then we were not we're not going to put that in the budget.  It's been suggested in the past that the budget process has not been transparent. So we put televised every single meeting, every minute of every meeting. And there were a lot of minutes. And I would suggest hours of meetings so that they're on the kid, have them tape. They're all on CC, TV, channel eight. So if you have nothing better to do, they're on their again.  We are aware that money is a  finite asset in Claremont, and so we wanted to make sure that the budget is always mindful of people's ability to pay and the fact that people have confidence, experts have confidence and citizens that we are being responsible with their money.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The and again, one of the things in Bonnie's not here, but she's been a driving force on planning for future, capital projects. When I first started on the board,

[15552-17] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; chair of the Parliamentary Procedure ad hoc commit | 2024-02-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Heather will always call me the Frugal Yankee, and I'm the one for sure. That's always going to want to maximize the resources that we have and look for efficiencies. That's just part of my DNA, I think. So that is our finance committee goals.
TEXT> It should be obvious that for kids to do well in school, they need to have high quality construction. But just because something seems simple doesn't mean it's an easy thing to do. An analogy that I'm going to use to explain the way we are thinking about this is that you can have a  stock  stock car racing, you can have a fast car with all the bells and whistles, but if you don't have a great driver, right fuel and a spot on pit crew, you're not going to win the race. We have the fast cars there. Our teachers are qualified, dedicated, motivated and talented, but they need the right fuel, a strong pit crew and a committed visionary leader to get our kids across that finish line. So where are we falling short and why aren't we getting our kids across the finish line?  Primarily, it's a tier one instruction, which is general classroom instruction that impacts every student in the school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Our literacy and math data tells us that our tier one instruction needs to be enhanced and expanded prior to reaching initiatives. We did not have an aligned, district wide

[15552-20] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Capital Improvement and Finance Committees; board | 2024-02-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: this is a really important point. Nothing happens overnight. We have to wait and see the board, the students, to absorb the learning to take the test. Receive the test. It takes 2 or 3 years to see the benefits of of this integrated curriculum.
TEXT> Also, failure to support teachers is failing to support students. The school board is extremely supportive of the teachers. We want you all to know  that those teachers and parents do a terrific job helping the success of these students. So what are some steps we're taking?  We have instructional coaches and mentor mentor in this budget.  We have them for Stevens High School, middle school  and all elementary schools. We have professional development. There is a program called the Classroom Management. The doctor state's math instruction. Teach, teach united training. All these are  ways to support the teachers with professional development. The curriculum committee, they are ongoing working towards evaluating current curriculum. How can we improve and looking forward to adopting the new curriculum and  curriculum aligned textbooks? You can see in the budget there are  new textbooks to support these curriculums that we have adopted. Hello.  Okay.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: So we got a presentation from our this, McKinney being told he has on Courtney Porter just a couple of weeks ago. And we really wanted to dive into some

[15552-21] Jennifer Gallagher | School Board Member; district Curriculum Committee and Disruptive Beha | 2024-02-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: committee, they are ongoing working towards evaluating current curriculum. How can we improve and looking forward to adopting the new curriculum and curriculum aligned textbooks? You can see in the budget there are new textbooks to support these curriculums that we have adopted. Hello. Okay.
TEXT> So we got a presentation from  our this,  McKinney being told he has on  Courtney Porter just a couple of weeks ago. And we really wanted to dive into some of the barriers that our students are facing in the district.  So we know that learning can happen if the social, emotional and behavioral challenges of students are unmet. As  Heather said,  if students are worried about being bullied or  eating breakfast,  they're not in a place to learn. So,  teachers are reporting a dramatic increase in disruptive behavior,  and those behaviors interrupt in-class learning for all students. Managing these behaviors is diverting teachers time and attention from teaching. So every elementary school principal requested an additional social worker. Principles are spending time away from their administrative duties, evaluation, and instructional support responsibilities. When this porter was here, she let us know  that  our kids are dealing with a lot  of hours a day. They're only in school for six hours a day.  If they're dealing with DC  f  involvement for things like physical abuse, neglect, sexual abuse, substance misuse, medical neglect, educational  neglect or other reasons, again, they're not in a place where they can learn effectively.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: So school social workers have a dramatic potential impact on increasing student's ability to learn. Just to throw out a little statistics, I took Miss Quarter's presentation and did a

[15552-22] Jennifer Gallagher | School Board Member; district Curriculum Committee and Disruptive Beha | 2024-02-03
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: day. They're only in school for six hours a day. If they're dealing with DC f involvement for things like physical abuse, neglect, sexual abuse, substance misuse, medical neglect, educational neglect or other reasons, again, they're not in a place where they can learn effectively.
TEXT> So  school social workers have a dramatic potential impact on increasing student's ability to learn.  Just to throw out a little statistics, I took Miss Quarter's presentation and did a little math.  We had 161 DC  calls in district for school year 2223. That equates to about 11% of our student body. That's about one and nine kids dealing with some heavy stuff in a typical classroom. That could be 2 or 3 students. So if we go to our plan to the next slide, please. A plan to address the challenges. The board did approve an additional social worker for  a total of three district wide social workers. Previously, all three elementary schools were sharing a single social worker with Stephens High. Our desperate goals include increased access to community supports, providing parental or guardian coaching, behavioral accountability for students that are exhibiting some disruptive behaviors. We like to improve academic check ins with all students, improve the classroom environment for all learners by decreasing disruptive behaviors that negatively impact a healthy school climate and culture.  I chair the Disruptive Behaviors Committee, which is made up of a lot of really great community people, including staff and admin,  across the the buildings.  Principles.  Restorative justice folks.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: People involved with the juvenile court system. And parents are always welcome to attend committee meetings. We value community input at meetings like that. So the committee really is focusing

[15552-23] Jennifer Gallagher | School Board Member; district Curriculum Committee and Disruptive Beha | 2024-02-03
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: all learners by decreasing disruptive behaviors that negatively impact a healthy school climate and culture. I chair the Disruptive Behaviors Committee, which is made up of a lot of really great community people, including staff and admin, across the the buildings. Principles. Restorative justice folks.
TEXT> People involved with the juvenile court system.  And parents are always welcome to attend committee meetings.  We value community input at meetings like that.  So the committee really is focusing on developing and creating supportive policies and procedures that can support positive classroom culture and enhance the learning environment for all our kids.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: This next slide is it's really exciting for me to report. We're expanding the CTE programing. That's at the center. For about the past year and a half. There's been

[15552-30] Frank Sprague | School Board Vice Chair; Finance Committee Chair; board representative | 2024-02-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: We are paying more for electricity supplies. Our dental and health insurance costs have increased and not this year, but in past years and possibly in future years, we could be required to contribute more to the New Hampshire State Retirement Fund for educators.
TEXT> I think one of the most important changes is that in the past, we've been called the the the committee. I've shared this thing called the budget subcommittee. We are now the finance Committee. Can you hear me?  We're now the Finance Committee. And the purpose of this is to  have a more. Is to have a. A more  proactive process where we are working with the administration  year round, rather than just those few weeks prior to the budget season. And  we're actually looking forward to that. Again, we are really sticklers. This board is on data driven decisions. So if someone is asking for more money or asking for money, we want to know why  or what are you going to do with it and what how  is it going to improve student achievement? And so that's the plan. And the main, the main, as I said, the main issue is we're no longer the budget committee where the finance committee ongoing. Right in the formal evaluation of programs in mission is to include measures of success. And we've been  asking for that.  It's as I said earlier, it started with the Esser project. And  if these are going to continue, we want to see measurable results  with our curriculum, with our  coaches, with our professional development. The board is the expectation is  if you want to continue with others, see results.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Very okay.

[15552-34] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (self-identified) | 2024-02-03
PREV> Mary Henry: are part of the day to day, school function of education. But it's like your guidance, your nurse psychology or psychologists. You get language occupational therapy and physical therapy. Now media technology includes your IT department and your media library in each of the buildings.
TEXT> So that would be your teacher that is in your,  your library's staff development consists of the staff coaches, salaries and benefits and supplies. General administration is your school board. This is where everything that has to do with the district itself would go, like audit fees, legal fees, our school board  clerk, any dues at the school board has them selves. The next one is school administration. This is the principals, their office, staff, salaries, benefits, supplies, dues, postage, things that nature operate their buildings, facilities, covers the regular repairs and maintenance of the grounds, buildings, utilities, salaries and benefits, and other miscellaneous items that have to do with the function of our facility. Transportation includes all costs associated with regular special ed vocational trips, our field trips, athletic transportation and that those items. The next is your debt services. I'm not your bond interest payment and your principal payment for the ride. Moving on. I have a pie chart here just showing the differences of how much each of these items are. I think is important for people to look at that and see that like regular instructions, 32% special ed is 22%, and the other ones are very small portions of your budget.  Although each of them add up, it is it is smaller. Your,  student services again is 7.82% and your, students are media and technology, 7.15%. Most of these items in some way impact students or all of them do.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Okay. The next one I put a chart in here. This is the objectives. So our again our chart of accounts are made up of your your budget which is

[15552-51] Unidentified | School board member speaking from the floor as a voter in favor of Art | 2024-02-03
PREV> Unidentified: and forward thinking. I want to reiterate that this district and its budget exists within larger systems of society, government and finance. Those systems have a much greater impact on this district and its budget than the reverse, and oftentimes that does not feel fair.
TEXT> The greatest impact this district can have on those systems, in my opinion, is producing students who grow into healthy, knowledgeable, and goal oriented adults who will be the leaders of the future and who have the opportunity to change those systems and make them more fair. This budget supports that aim by supporting the growth and development of our students, with renewed focus on the necessary materials and resources that our teachers and families need. Thank you.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Thank you. Is there anything? Sorry. Is there anybody else who would like to speak for or against? Yes.

[15552-53] Unidentified | Voter from the floor speaking in favor of Article 2 (name not stated;  | 2024-02-03
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Thank you. Is there anything? Sorry. Is there anybody else who would like to speak for or against? Yes.
TEXT> Is that this enables our. School district. To bring together. And organize. Curriculum, which is what we teach, instruction, how. It is thought. And the assessment that measures our students progress. World and learning. There are also supports to those students who struggle with margin. For those students who struggle in their classroom environment and have difficulty succeeding. This budget also supports our teachers. It provides resources, incentives, and the tools they need to also provide successful instruction for our families. The second reason I support this budget is the financial consideration for Claremont Finance Subcommittee, as so eloquently was said, asked many questions during the budget process. There were requests, adjustments that will. What did you receive with our new business administrator, Mrs. Henry, and our administrative team? Many hours were spent televised hours, as Whitney said, to provide sufficiency, transparency and accuracy. To bring this budget to a responsible level, the members of the board have been selected by the citizens, and we all have an obligation to have our students leave 12th grade and be productive citizens of our community, our state and our country. We take this responsibility very seriously. We have time. I support this budget and I encourage us all to support. Thank you. Thanks.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Okay. Anybody else who would like to speak for against this article?

[15552-55] Unidentified | Parent from the floor speaking against Article 2 (name not stated; des | 2024-02-03
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Okay. Anybody else who would like to speak for against this article?
TEXT> What are we doing with this money that is being set aside for these positions? I appreciate everything that teachers do. We have done a great job. But from what I see, some of the instruction is not going the way it should. I have a child in school and they're getting taught by videos off of YouTube. How is this the best instruction that a child can get? It needs to be a teacher on a blackboard. Our whiteboard smart board giving the instruction not every student can wear or not the video. I have another son. My son. He is excellent student. He can do all videos, online, training, everything. But when we have disruptive children in our classroom, this is what is taken away from those children that could be exceptional. We extend too much time  working with those children and we be our exceptional children behind. I do not agree with this budget because I think there's better things that we can do. So I do not support this budget and I encourage everyone. To come down.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Thank you.

[15552-59] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-identifies as interim superintende | 2024-02-03
PREV> Charlene Lovett: I hate to interrupt, but we do have it. In time. Is there anybody else who would like to speak either for or against the article?
TEXT> Shirley, speak to that? Yes. Yeah. In regards to. The last response, I can't  disagree with the concerns that we're seeing in my short time here. That's what the budget is trying to do. We're we do have open slots that have not been filled or we're still trying to kill them. We do want to use technology in our classroom, but the programs coming in, you know, we want to see to get away from the the YouTubes and stuff like that. But like the was presented earlier, the moving forward, the curriculum that will want to budget for will give the opportunity for students to be in an organized curriculum, whether it's through technology or it's through books. The boy did a good job really saying that we're not in a place we want to be now. What we are trying to move forward in regards to transform what education looks like in Claremont. So I'm not disagreeing with any comments are made.  I'm just saying that we want to move forward with providing the students the best education we can, because there are things happen in the classroom that shouldn't be happening. And it it does get in the way of not just student learning but teacher learning. And I think a lot of the times sometimes you can't fill these positions.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It might not just so happy to pay, but there is in a that's a nationwide regards to trying to find good teachers and stuff. So I'm not disagreeing with

[15552-65] Gary Merchant | Voter, Ward 2 (self-identified - ASR renders it 'Gary Martin for two'; | 2024-02-03
PREV> Unidentified: as I possibly can. I find that even in these times, people are trying to do their best. People are financially struggling. These SAC members are mostly taxpayers have come on, mostly residents. They are subject to the same property taxes. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Gary Martin for two. Lifelong resident. I wanted to take this opportunity. Things one is but at the same time support report itself. My heart goes out to the chair when you done a great job. Both the good work, the rest of the board. On a nominal job. I've been in this community. Like I said, all my life, I've seen the ups and downs. I feel this community is finally coming around. We actually are doing things in a positive way. If we want to grow a community, you want to make the community pilot and healthy, not just for the students, but also for those who desire here. It's important that we support the goals of the sport is trying to put forward, and one of the things that we be thinking about, it's an investment. How is it and expense? I grew up listening to that before I came back to this community. This committee has a lot to give, but we also need to have educated students to support the community ultimately. It's an investment of art as well. So for those reasons, I want to say thank you for all the work. The school board is gonna need to be recognized for that as well. So thank you and hopefully you can support as well. Thank you.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Thank you. Is there anybody else or against. If not I'll close the discussion and this article will move forward as written on the ballot. Next is article 13 a

[15552-98] Unidentified | Closing words of a speaker supporting the paraprofessionals' agreement | 2024-02-03
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Yes.
TEXT> The recognition and compensation that they deserve. Thank you. With people who care about them, with people who are  definitely worth more than they're getting paid.  With people who, you know,  who who will allow them to stay in district rather than having to go other places to be educated. They have high support needs.  And my parents rock every day. They were,  And so what more can I say? Please support this article for the students at Claremont. You do? Children here in the public schools with my husband, Jim. And, in my time with Love School. This is year five. I've,  been blessed to work with quite a number of parents who I find, have the highest degree of professionalism, growth, mindset, devotion to our students, flexibility, walking in every. Day to the classroom, not always knowing what's going to be expected of them from either the teachers or the students. Their devotion is incredible. The confidentiality that they keep around the student. Learning. Plans with which they're presented,  high degree of sensitivity to the. Information that they need to guard on behalf of our students.  They've got an extremely. Low rate of absenteeism as, an incredible workforce.  Kara's their hands on their at the front line constantly recess, lunch duty, toiletry matters that, like, you cannot imagine. I mean, I don't know how they would do it without them.  The relationships that the pairs have with students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Parents. Trusted adults. Oftentimes, parents are afforded an opportunity to have, relationships with the students that teachers don't because we're juggling content and grades. And parent contact in the Paris

[15580-221] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Joint Board Chair - the onset of her own next sentence, 'All rig | 2024-02-15
PREV> Unidentified: That's right. I'm on that other policy.
TEXT> All right, let's. Move on to the final policy of the evening. Policy DGA, which is authorized signatures. This is an easy policy. It's a new one. It's to give structure as to who should be signing documents on behalf of the essay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So that's. A good.

[15585-0] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> 
TEXT> I'd like to call to order the February 21st, 2024 meeting of the Claremont School Board. All in attendance. Please rise and join in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the States of America and to the Republic for which it is one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Please call the board. Attendance. Other. Whitney. Present. You're here. Witness. Present. Yeah. Here. Our first order of business is the approval of the items on the consent agenda. All items on the consent agenda will be accepted or approved without discussion. Unless a motion is made to move a specific item to the regular agenda. That item will be placed at the end of the agenda for consideration. The items on this evening's consent agenda include. Approval of  board minutes from January 17th, 2024. Approval of minutes of the working session on January 29th, 2024.  Approval of the board agenda as written, and approval of the annual Youth and Government trip to Concord, which will be led by Miss Chastity. Is there any wish to move any of these items to the regular agenda? Seeing none. The the clerk will please  record that the consent agenda has been approved. We will now open the floor to non-agenda items. Citizens. Comments for policy BEDH. Is there anyone present wishing to speak this evening?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Seeing no one wishing to speak, we are going to close citizens comments. Moving on directly to the student board member report. Our student representatives are Nicole Bouchard and Kylie

[15585-1] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: of these items to the regular agenda? Seeing none. The the clerk will please record that the consent agenda has been approved. We will now open the floor to non-agenda items. Citizens. Comments for policy BEDH. Is there anyone present wishing to speak this evening?
TEXT> Seeing no one wishing to speak, we are going to close citizens comments.  Moving on directly to the student board member report. Our student  representatives are Nicole Bouchard and Kylie Plummer. Seeing as they're absent, we will move forward to the public hearing. The public hearing this evening is for to accept the donation donation of $10,000 from the Jack and Dorothy Burns Foundation to help fund the eighth grade Boston trip. That is. I think it's. We have an annual eighth grade trip. Is there anyone  in the public who would like to speak, or any ward member who would like to make a comment? Seeing none, we'll close the public hearing. Is there a motion to accept the donation of $10,000 from the Jack and Dorothy Burns Foundation to help fund the Claremont Middle School eighth grade trip to Boston?
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm making.

[15585-7] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: Yeah, that's the intentions. Yeah.
TEXT> Okay. And I think it's a very generous donation, so really, very much so. Thank you to Miss Burn. Yeah. They have been a tremendous contributors to our community for many, many years, and we couldn't do a lot of things that we do for our students without them. So all in favor of accepting the donation? Say I, I  any opposed seeing. None opposed. The donation is accepted.  Next to gender item is the superintendent's report.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Good evening everybody. We have a few pages here in front of you in regards to the reports. I think we'd be here for a while if I went over

[15585-11] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/11/2024, effecti | 2024-02-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: special Ed. It's like any other year and most schools are dealing with in special ed it's always a challenge. To find not just teachers but especially special ed teachers. And that was always been the case. So that's something we continue to work at.
TEXT> And the principal puts you'll have one from every school in here.  As you look through these, what you'll notice is that I kind of created this, this template for the principals to fill out based on the the board's goals of communication, organizational, organizational structure, training and professional development, student achievement, operations, culture and climate, and curriculum instruction. You know, some months there wouldn't be anything else. Categories. But I think it was worth keeping uniformed in regards to if we want all be in the same page and guides what the goals are, using them on a monthly basis will,  allow us to to know them.  Just have to refer to them. So it's kind of a living document next month in separate sheets. It'll be in one document. Kind of like the principals report I did for the high school. So you'll see one similar to that, only it will be for the total superintendents report.  So like I said, I'm not going to go through all of them. But you'll notice there is a lot of great stuff going in the around the classrooms. If you focus on student achievement, you know, look at the the middle school.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: They have nape testing SAS testing. They're they're using Excel. We have Excel we've been using at the high school with the middle school is using it this year for

[15585-46] Charlene Lovett | Presenter to the board on behalf of American Legion Post 29, Claremont | 2024-02-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: So is there an opportunity for you to go talk to the juniors?
TEXT> So that's a great question. Marian and I tried to do this at the high school last January, I believe, but we found through our efforts and we had great support from the counselors, the high school counselors, and they made sure we had a table in the foyer and all that. But our experience showed that the best way to get this discussion rolling is really to make sure that the entire community is aware, because students have to have these discussions with their parents, families and friends. As you I'll give you an example. So, Marian, when was one of the two students in the state of New Hampshire to go to the United States Senate youth program, that that happened for her for two for two reasons. One, her principal gave her the opportunity to show her the paperwork and said, I think you should apply. She, the principal, called me and said, Has Marian talked to you about the United States Senate? You know. And so it was only by chance of luck that she, you know, the principal talked to me in time so that I could have that discussion with Marian, and then we could go through the application process. Fortunately  we did. She became one of the two that were selected for the state. And now she's a director at the national level for the United States Senate Youth program.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So again, these opportunities exist for our students. They don't. I would like to see the opportunities to expand beyond what we know here in Claremont, because there's a huge

[15585-47] Charlene Lovett | Presenter to the board on behalf of American Legion Post 29, Claremont | 2024-02-21
PREV> Charlene Lovett: have that discussion with Marian, and then we could go through the application process. Fortunately we did. She became one of the two that were selected for the state. And now she's a director at the national level for the United States Senate Youth program.
TEXT> So again, these opportunities exist for our students. They don't. I would like to see the opportunities to expand beyond what we know here in Claremont, because there's a huge world out there and and there are plethora of opportunities, but it's going to take these comprehensive discussions among many different people to really to get the momentum going and the energy going and the excitement going of what is really out there and what we can achieve. You know, this is this is a way of also gaining pride for our community. We have done great things, our students have accomplished great things. And just to see them experience things that are well outside of what they know on a daily basis, it's it's a wonderful thing.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you so much for coming.

[15585-58] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: Yeah, I'll follow up with them in person to to make sure, see if they have any questions. And, you know, see what we can do to, you know, maybe invite families in who are interested in participating in this at some point.
TEXT> There's probably teachers and principals know the kids. That would probably be the type of kid that would want to to reach out individually.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: You know, why it was so successful at that period of time was, Dave Stockwell was the physics teacher and he was retired Air Force, and he talked to the

[15585-59] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023); Finance Committee | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: There's probably teachers and principals know the kids. That would probably be the type of kid that would want to to reach out individually.
TEXT> You know, why it was so successful at that period of time was,  Dave Stockwell was the physics teacher and he was retired  Air Force, and he talked to the kids constantly and kept giving them ideas about what was possible because he was retired military himself. And that's why there were so many kids during that period of time who were who went to the military academies.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Chelseas husband.

[15585-93] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District (started July 2023)  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Mary Henry: right now. Roughly $400,000. Now, again, this is something that we currently also have in SR, SR three, but there's there's stipulations behind what I can pull from the general budget. And I need an opportunity to review that with Ben to go over that.
TEXT> The other thing is our special ed transportation is up  over budget, about $220,000, which is  considerable amount, but the cost of transportation is very expensive on a daily basis for the students  that are out of district. So again, without a district going up, I can see where transportation has gone up. I think our transportation amount was one or budgeted  in this year. But again, you know, I don't know what they knew back then for the rates, but I know rates have gone up quite a bit since, since that time.  We've got some areas in our  district, widespread salaries that have gone up a little bit. But again, that's going back to looking at the budget itself and looking at the spreadsheets you had. And the numbers within the spreadsheet don't exactly line up within the actual budget itself. So have a lot of variables within the salary benefit lines because of that. So that money maybe just be sitting in another line and I just, I, I don't. I'd have to go through to find it all and I'm, I'm not going to do that.
NEXT> Mary Henry: I feel the number that's out there, bottom line is right. I'm not going to go to that extent. Unless someone tells me I have to. How's that sound? The

[15585-173] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District (started July 2023)  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And we did have a bigger push this year to have people fill in forms and submit them and all that. And we're still down. Yeah, quite.
TEXT> A bit. And we have one school that's a c p school, which means they're automatically free. We cannot push forms in those schools. We can't tell them to fill it out. It's a whole different form they have to fill out. We can't even have forms out according to the federal government. So you know, it's which is hard because all those kids, it's a c p school for a reason, you know,  and like I said, it just it it's it's frustrating sometimes with the loss of.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: What makes you ask. For this. Item agenda. Is there anything else? Is there anything you want to ask in particular.

[15585-202] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023 to the one-year seat, | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Gallagher.
TEXT> I just have a quick question. Do any families,  try to, like,  opt out of the ability for their student to get school lunch in order to avoid,  their student getting lunch when they don't have permission or funds to do so, and kids are just getting lunches that their families don't want them to get. Does that happen? Because I feel like I, I feel like people have said that on like social media, that they're like, I've called the office and called the office to try and get it. So is that a thing that happens?
NEXT> Mary Henry: It does, but we cannot tell students. We cannot deny a student a meal, and we can't tell them they have to have something else.

[15585-229] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: I.
TEXT> Am, so there's several things  you've asked to be presented tonight. Feel free to jump in at any time with questions. Don't wait till the end. We'll start with the benchmark results. These are tests we gave at the beginning of the school year to students  in English and math and reading and math test again winter, which is February. We'll do one more time in the spring. What we're looking for is a year's worth of growth over the course of the year. And ideally, for some of our students who are behind their grade level, we need a year and a half year and a quarter, maybe a year and three quarters worth of growth. And so,  we're we're trying to get a measure of this. And, so here's kind of our overall fall and winter grades. Green. Those green scores are at or above grade level. Those are the two different greens. Yellow is one grade level back and the red is two and three or more. Now at  the these are all the grades averaged together. And so just at a guess which grades do you think are scoring better grades. The aggregate score better. It's harder to be further behind. Right. Right. So but.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: They weren't impacted by Covid. I'm sorry but the younger green.

[15585-257] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: So how does. How does this compare to state averages?
TEXT> We are almost entirely and not encouraged state but national titles. We are below national percentiles and they're almost all. Yes. Okay. Yeah.  I think if you're looking at getting there, where where it's a minimum of a two year process to, to get close to that level. Yeah. So. Yeah. And, and so going back to reading, you can see the red decreasing  yellow fluctuates as students move from red to yellow and yellow to green. So that may expand. But we're seeing green increase in red decrease in in both reading and math from fall through as we should.  I don't believe this slide is in your packet. And so here we have those scores by the three for all the schools. And so you can see kindergarten first grade.  Almost all of those students are at grade level or just below. And as we moved down the grade levels we see that population falling away. And with the exception in this case of third grade, which is good, showing great growth, which is  I think the end of our Covid.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's a cusp.

[15585-264] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: That'll that'll go up.
TEXT> So that they continue on that,  through second grade. So ideally we will see this move down the grade levels as we continue to build this foundation in K one with improved literacy skills.  But we we're definitely on the right path and moving our students in the right direction. It's certainly in reading math. Oh, there we go. Okay. Same thing in math, but,  slightly lower percentages. And I think that's because we don't have a math program in place yet. That's something we're working on this year. We expect this summer to have our teachers trained in it before the school year starts. Next school year, we begin implementing an elementary math program. So same idea. We want to see the red decrease from fall to winter and green increase. And it's the same categories of above or on and below.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Are these benchmarks? Are they measured by a standardized test?

[15585-282] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: like a desert. In the green area, it goes from the highest from 8 to 21%. That's a heck of a jump. It is. And then 15 to 22%, you add those two categories together and that you're measuring class measure. I mean, that's huge.
TEXT> It is, it is. In terms of growth it's large. Yeah. In terms of status, we have one third of our kids at grade level.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: True. Right. I mean, there are lots of things.

[15585-305] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023); CHAIR of the SAU 6  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Arlene.
TEXT> So when you talk about the tight window and assessing very specific experiences for the students, when the teacher sees that it's not the growth is not there as much. With whom does that teacher meet or how does that sure change.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. So one the first place would be in the classroom and you create some small groups, the elementary level, and you work in those small groups. And just here

[15585-318] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> Mike Koski: But, he's he's really helped our teachers to understand this concept of creating problems that everybody can attack and everybody participates in and everybody grows. And so the more we move our instruction this way, I think the more we're going to bring everybody along.
TEXT> Because I know there was some frustration within the community. And I, as a parent, remember this, is that I felt that we were not teaching all the students were a lot of the energy was teaching at the low level questions and middle kids in the kids that are a little bit more farther along were not being challenged enough. So I hope what it sounds like is this is attacking that problem.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yes. Right. Yeah. And so I think you can, can probably think of ways you could do this in science. You can do it in, in English. And if, if

[15585-358] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; chair of the Finance Committee - C | 2024-02-21
PREV> Mike Koski: 480. So here I best scores are are 100. And we don't see a lot of growth in this in this group. We go to the, math score. We see similar results where there isn't a lot of growth. And if we do great questions.
TEXT> These kids attend summer school.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yes. Yes.

[15585-378] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> Mike Koski: Could it. The things that could impact this.
TEXT> This could be the kids.
NEXT> Mike Koski: A kid first time, five weeks away, every day. School doesn't stop. That could be it. It it could be. Could be any number of things. Could be the group

[15585-379] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: This could be the kids.
TEXT> A kid first time, five weeks away, every day. School doesn't stop. That could be it. It it could be. Could be any number of things. Could be the group that just signed up.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[15585-385] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Do you think some of it could be because of the youth?
NEXT> Mike Koski: It could be. Yeah. I mean, it.

[15585-444] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/11/2024, effecti | 2024-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: If.
TEXT> Even if they didn't, even if they were, you know, something for half the day, we would still utilize them somewhere else in the building. So that would make it nice and easy. $125 a day. This is it. And I think you know that that would help the increase on because a lot of our teachers, because they are great teachers there. Fantastic. And they care about their peers and the kids. They're stepping up to cover these classes when someone else is up for PD or they're sick or what have you. So I mean by December they're getting pretty fried.
NEXT> Unidentified: No kidding.

[15585-583] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: When are you going?
TEXT> I'll see what's best for Steve.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Let me know.

[15607-4] Kylie Plummer | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2024-03-06
PREV> Nicole Bouchard: year. Most student concerns are about getting adequate information and knowledge before it happening. I do have concerns about credits and the 27, 23 and 20 diplomas because I believe that it would be harder to reach and kind of just be more on that.
TEXT> Hello. It's been a while.  I'm sure as many of you know, there's a block schedule proposed for the high school.  Many of our high school students are concerned for their future classes. However, as much as we'd benefit from having our core classes year long, it also takes away from our electives. Electives are very important to the students, and many students have expressed concerns about how the electives are going to work and how credits might be changing. There is a huge sigma around credits, switching from 0.5 to 0.25, and a lot of students are concerned that it will mess up their plan to graduate and what diploma they are receiving. The proposed 45 minutes for each block. If classes are switched, this will take away from culinary, art, science, music, and all band classes. Although the tech is planning to double up on classes, I believe that's still also taking away from our education because that's another block that we could be spending in a different elective or core class that could help us get more credits. Changing our credits would take away from the amount we need to graduate in the following years. I would like to express how important these classes are for students. For me and other students, there are in cooking classes I've been in baking. It's a way to escape from every other class and just work for your hands. It's a great way of learning how to cook.
NEXT> Kylie Plummer: Art classes have always been an outlet for students. It's a career path for some and a future for others. Science is a core class, as we all know, and

[15607-5] Kylie Plummer | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2024-03-06
PREV> Kylie Plummer: how important these classes are for students. For me and other students, there are in cooking classes I've been in baking. It's a way to escape from every other class and just work for your hands. It's a great way of learning how to cook.
TEXT> Art classes have always been an outlet for students. It's a career path for some and a future for others. Science is a core class, as we all know, and I'm worried about how we would complete our labs within a 45 minute period. Many labs take our full, I believe it's 78 minutes and many run into a class the next day. Music and band is very important to the students. It's something that I've seen all of them be very passionate about. However, 45 minutes is not enough to learn something in band, practice it with the teacher, and then practice it alone as we vote for the schedule. In the future, I would like you all to take into consideration how this could negatively affect the students, their schedules and most important, importantly, their learning. And a lot of students are also concerned about how Newport Tech classes would work, because for us, travel there, have their full 85 minute blocks and then travel back. It would take three class blocks in the 45 minute schedule. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Very informative and we really appreciate the input. Next we're going to move on to the agenda item, which is the public hearing. This public hearing is for

[15607-210] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024, the nig | 2024-03-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: add in for the superintendent's report is it sounds like, we're asking a question. It sounds like there is some concerns about the schedule change at the high school. So, I know we'll have an opportunity to hear more about that at a later date.
TEXT> Yeah. I mean, right now the kids are still registering for classes and stuff, and we're really not going to get a true picture of, you know, what it looks like once the kids are loaded. That's why we started to do it so early. But as far as you know, how it affects the arts and the tech centers and stuff. The schedule coincides, you know, with this tech center here.  It's it's a block for a block. You know, we're not looking. It's the period. Schedules really shouldn't affect the arts in the music  because those are the departments we're we're building on in regards to increase the opportunities for students. But 100%, we're not going to know what how the schedule turns out for the students benefit until they're loaded and we run the schedule, and that's what we can come back and say, you know, these this is what we found to be true. And this is what we found not to be true.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So and we have an opportunity to kind of discuss the financial implications if there are any. Yeah, I think that will be a finance committee kind of conversation.

[15607-212] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024, the nig | 2024-03-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: So and we have an opportunity to kind of discuss the financial implications if there are any. Yeah, I think that will be a finance committee kind of conversation.
TEXT> Yeah. I think we'll have to. And that's why, you know, the only way to get the true data and what it's going to look like is by running the schedule. So that's what we that's why we started it so early May. Alpha defer to the principal in regards to that. Do you technically when do you know when we're going to be able to load the kids in the schedule and figure out what it looks like?
NEXT> Unidentified: At a staff meeting yesterday, we were discussing, mid-May to have that all set. Yeah. So I figured.

[15607-222] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024, the nig | 2024-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: in middle school, and then by the time they took the test as juniors, they they may have taken the geometry first semester as a freshman. And now I'm taking a test as a as a second semester junior. And that geometry has long gone.
TEXT> Yeah. I mean, initially, you know, we started looking at this  because what the data was telling us, you know, our test scores, weren't all that great.  The dropout rate wasn't that great.  The and doing looking at all the research that's out there. You're right. Is those gaps? Technically, a student could take a class their first semester of the freshman year and not see it again until the second semester of their sophomore year. You know, the, you know, block schedules can work. I mean, we have to make the adjustments based on what we're currently seeing in our student learning. And that's why we decided to really look at in the the period schedule, because right now, post-Covid, students are not used to sitting that long. You mean block schedule in my in my take, even before that, adults can't sit for 90 minutes. You can't expect students to do Zet. But we've seen, at least at the high school with the data that we see in, is that a lot of even the behavior issues were coming up in the second half of the block. And teachers need, you know, teachers need professional development in regards to how to teach a whole block, period.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Not that they're not doing that now, but right now. Keep in mind, that's why we kind of proposed this eight period schedule based on the current data we see.

[15607-223] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024, the nig | 2024-03-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: with the data that we see in, is that a lot of even the behavior issues were coming up in the second half of the block. And teachers need, you know, teachers need professional development in regards to how to teach a whole block, period.
TEXT> Not that they're not doing that now, but right now. Keep in mind, that's why we kind of proposed this eight period schedule based on the current data we see. Is this something that we say it's going to fix it for long term? No. But we have to always keep looking at the data and what it's showing us. And right now the data is showing us is that kids need to be in the classroom every day. If you look at the lab and stuff, like myself, you know, used to do science and art and stuff. Yeah. The longer periods are very important when it comes to getting set up and ready to go. But I also know from my experience is that when you're doing it every day, the labs can start and stop. The labs can remain set up because you're doing it every day, so it's in smaller chunks of time. There is some breaking down and put in a way, but not the sense where you'd have to totally break it down and put it back up. So I just want to, you know, the public to keep in mind is that the initial proposal was based on the current data we're seeing for Stephen's High School.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So it's specifically for Stephen's because, when I was hearing more about the. I'm sorry. Does anybody else want to speak before I. I'm sorry. Open my mouth. Some of

[15607-232] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the school board policy subcom | 2024-03-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's going.
TEXT> About this schedule and the comment made by our student representatives, can you tell me about, the changing and the credit value of courses?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, because it's a year long. They you have to adjust them in cording to Taiwan instruction and what they're meeting. So looking at it as a guidance department as

[15607-233] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024, the nig | 2024-03-06
PREV> Whitney Skillen: About this schedule and the comment made by our student representatives, can you tell me about, the changing and the credit value of courses?
TEXT> Yeah, because it's a year long. They you have to adjust them in cording to Taiwan instruction and what they're meeting. So looking at it as a guidance department as administration and teachers and stuff and talk, you know, in how other schools are doing it, they're really not losing any credits, actually increasing the time on instruction. So the credits might go down, but it's not going to overall impact them, not be able to graduate with so many credits. Plus we you know, plus, you know, keep in mind with the schedule you know we're we're we offer a lot of running stock programs now you know for for college credit. And we increased that by another six I think. So even though this might not be the the perfect schedule for students who are exceed we've built in these these other a lot more advanced courses for students to take there in that time too. So they can add college credit as well. So it's a little unique in regards to where Stevens High School is. Is that a lot of times in there when you switch schedules, you know, it's going to either affect the kids on the lower end or the higher end in somewhere in the middle too. But here we're trying to take all that into consideration.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Like I said, just based on what we put in place over the past few years for Odyssey, where for online classes, for really working with the Valley Community College

[15607-237] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024, the nig | 2024-03-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: maybe in the next month or so where we can allow a significant period of time at the board level and be able to offer opportunities for parents and concern students to even weigh in or ask questions that they might not have a forum.
TEXT> Or I think it's a good idea because, we're all trying to figure this out together and, you know, you want to hear the people who are for it. You also want to hear the people against it, because at some point you might hear something you didn't think of negative or positive. And I think, you know, we have to have that transparency when you're talking about schedule changes. It's like you hope for the best, plan for the worst sometimes. But this is something that we want to be transparent with. You know, we'd love to have it set in stone based on the data that we see, but we really don't, you know, can't say 100% that, you know, the, you know, until we run the kids through the schedule.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I'll tend to do that as meet with Mr. Broughton. We can figure out as soon as we can to make room in that agenda to do that. And is

[15607-238] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-03-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: want to be transparent with. You know, we'd love to have it set in stone based on the data that we see, but we really don't, you know, can't say 100% that, you know, the, you know, until we run the kids through the schedule.
TEXT> I'll tend to do that as meet with Mr. Broughton. We can figure out as soon as we can to make room in that agenda to do that. And is there any other comments on the superintendent's report? Okay. Seeing that none. We're going to move on to our discussion and action items. First on our agenda this evening is a presentation from Scott Blewett from West Central, from Haverhill. And he is the youth camp prevention coordinator.
NEXT> Unidentified: I didn't know if.

[15607-249] Scott Blewett | Prevention coordinator, Youth CAN - the Claremont-and-Newport Drug Fre | 2024-03-06
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Yes.
TEXT> I can email to you if need be. If you all have it in paper copy, I can certainly. Okay. Certainly. Good. I just want to make sure that you're seeing what I'm presenting. Okay. Sorry. Hi, everybody. My name is Scott Blewett, prevention coordinator for youth. Can,  and we  are here tonight. A couple other representatives I'll let to introduce ourselves when they come up, to talk about the youth risk behavior survey. For the sake of transparency, I just want to make sure that you're aware of what we're talking about tonight is data from 2021. Oh, so that is noteworthy. Because the 23 data will be coming out in the next few months, and I hope that we can come back and talk about that data and compare. So I just want to make sure that you're aware of that. The Youth Risk Behavior Survey is a survey developed by the center for Disease Control that tracks behaviors that lead to poor health outcomes and students in grades nine through 12  in some,  some school districts. The middle school also participates in that survey. The purpose of the survey is to allow  us to determine how often behaviors occur, analyze trends, and monitor progress. This information can lead to planning and evaluating programs that support youth health.  Some of the health related behaviors and experience include youth health behaviors and conditions, substance use behaviors, and student experiences.
NEXT> Scott Blewett: The Youth Camp Coalition was created in 2019, and it's actually the youth pretty obvious. And the Can is actually an acronym for Claremont and Newport. So we're funded by

[15607-250] Scott Blewett | Prevention coordinator, Youth CAN - the Claremont-and-Newport Drug Fre | 2024-03-06
PREV> Scott Blewett: us to determine how often behaviors occur, analyze trends, and monitor progress. This information can lead to planning and evaluating programs that support youth health. Some of the health related behaviors and experience include youth health behaviors and conditions, substance use behaviors, and student experiences.
TEXT> The Youth Camp Coalition was created in 2019, and it's actually the youth pretty obvious. And the Can is actually an acronym for Claremont and Newport.  So we're funded by  a grant from the CDC, the Drug Free Communities grant,  to  build strong and diverse partnerships in the community, working collectively to increase protective factors  among youth, families and organizations. So we're awarded $125,000 each year for five years. And then we have a renewal process for a second, five years after that. There's other funding  sources. The three key goals is to raise a village in Claremont and Newport,  especially by engaging DFC,  defined sectors. Some of those sectors include  education, law enforcement, parents, youth serving organizations, the list goes on. There's actually 12 different sectors of what represents a well-rounded community. We also assess local youth substance misuse through qualitative and quantitative data analysis. And we initiate activities to address local risk factors and conditions to prevent substance use. The first slide that I want to share with you, because my purpose of being here tonight is to talk about alcohol and marijuana specifically.
NEXT> Scott Blewett: This first slide is specifically about binge drinking, and it's comparing Stevens High School versus greatest Sullivan County versus New Hampshire. And as you can see with Stevens High School

[15607-252] Scott Blewett | Prevention coordinator, Youth CAN - the Claremont-and-Newport Drug Fre | 2024-03-06
PREV> Scott Blewett: were four failures in Newport. There's 27 and they all passed. So that was good. So it's getting better. So within the program, if they deny access, we give them a certificate of recognition so they can hang proudly in their establishment and take pride.
TEXT> If they fail. We use it as a learning opportunity. And the Liquor Commission and the law enforcement officer, Claremont PD, go in and talk about what happened and what their next step are. The steps are, and a lot of it is just an online course.  With the the seller  and the owner of the establishment on the best practices on what they should be doing. If it happens frequently, there could be fines  or loss of license involved. We also do a sticker shock campaign when we take kids  to those alcohol retailers.  And we put stickers on them. Sticker shock. Buyer beware.  Don't buy alcohol for kids under 21. Don't sell alcohol to kids under 21. So this is a great opportunity. And it's actually a great learning opportunity for the kids.  And almost a shock to them when they see some of the alcohol that's marketed towards kids. They might be alcohol drinks that looks very similar to a Sunny Delight drink,  or White Claws, for example, typically, alcoholic. But now they have a nonalcoholic version. So sometimes there's confusion. So marketing of alcohol is is a big discussion locally as well as the state level. We also do stickers, for example at the local pizza places,  to again educate parents about where they keep alcohol at home because they might have  beer and wine right next to the milk in the refrigerator. They might have liquor cabinets that are not secured.
NEXT> Scott Blewett: So we want to reduce the access and educate the parents. The next slide that I want to share with you is the marijuana use. Over the past 30 days,

[15607-254] Scott Blewett | Prevention coordinator, Youth CAN - the Claremont-and-Newport Drug Fre | 2024-03-06
PREV> Scott Blewett: loaded with THC. So it's very interesting. We do have some great resources, operation Parent Handbook, that we share freely to educate parents, so they can get more educated on the social media apps and some of the marketing of products, that are out there.
TEXT> It's quite surprising. Some of the other programs that we encourage is the talk they hear you. This program is wonderful and engages its messaging towards substance use of of marijuana and prescription drugs. These signs hopefully you have seen around the schools and around the community. If not, I will give you more because this is a wonderful resource with crisis support, suicide prevention,  and that is a big aspect that we want to share more  going forward. Because even though the numbers of alcohol and marijuana use are down,  mental health issues are on the rise,  and we'll share that when we come next time and have more recent data to show. One of the initiatives we love and we need more help with is activities for kids. So we have Youth Action Club, and we started one in Newport a few months ago  and on the verge of starting one in Claremont. And these are just a group of proactive kids,  that want to create awareness within the communities. This is a student led, adult supported,  committee, and we take all kids of any interest. And really we just want to organize activities for them  within the community.  We want to engage them, educate them,  but also we want to have fun.
NEXT> Scott Blewett: If they're busy having fun and doing the right things, they won't have time for the negative stuff. So hopefully I can get more support within Claremont and we can

[15607-255] Scott Blewett | Prevention coordinator, Youth CAN - the Claremont-and-Newport Drug Fre | 2024-03-06
PREV> Scott Blewett: the communities. This is a student led, adult supported, committee, and we take all kids of any interest. And really we just want to organize activities for them within the community. We want to engage them, educate them, but also we want to have fun.
TEXT> If they're busy having fun and doing the right things, they won't have time for the negative stuff. So hopefully I can get more support within Claremont and we can get the Claremont Youth Action Club going pretty quickly  because I know there is a need. I just need volunteers and I need a home. Next, I would like to turn it over to Turning Point and Taylor.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Why don't.

[15607-258] Kerry Rochford | Prevention educator, Turning Points Network (Sullivan County's crisis  | 2024-03-06
PREV> Unidentified: You also.
TEXT> Good evening. My name is Kerry Rochford. And. I am a prevention educator at Turning Points Network.  And we have been part of Youth Can and the work that's being done in the community. So I want to tell you a little bit about turning points and about  our work specific to some of the questions. So as you may know, Turning Points is one of 12 programs in the state of New Hampshire, crisis and Support centers that work with folks who've experienced relationship abuse, sexual assaults,  stalking, sexual harassment, and sex trafficking. And we are Sullivan County's crisis and support center. So we offer services to people who have been impacted by abuse.  And then we spend a lot of our time doing prevention work and outreach in the community. And that's really what I want to focus on and talk with you  about tonight. Our prevention work, we provide programing preschool through high school, actually college, even River Valley here in Claremont, we do programing there as well. Really focused on healthy relationships education and abuse prevention. So we wanted to look at some of the questions that are specific to those issues that turning points networks provide support to people around.  And so  I want to talk with you just a little bit about these three questions here.  Question 32 says during your life, how often have you have your parents or other adults in your home slapped kit, kit punched, or beat each other up?
NEXT> Kerry Rochford: So that's question 32 there on the left. And you can see the Stevens numbers compared to greater Sullivan County and the state of New Hampshire. Certainly, there's more recognition

[15607-259] Kerry Rochford | Prevention educator, Turning Points Network (Sullivan County's crisis  | 2024-03-06
PREV> Kerry Rochford: And so I want to talk with you just a little bit about these three questions here. Question 32 says during your life, how often have you have your parents or other adults in your home slapped kit, kit punched, or beat each other up?
TEXT> So that's question 32 there on the left. And you can see the Stevens numbers compared to greater Sullivan County and the state of New Hampshire. Certainly, there's more recognition now around adverse childhood experiences and trauma and how that impacts students ability to learn, how that impacts our community, how it impacts mental health, substance misuse, all of the things that we were talking about here. So it's important for us as a community to to look at these numbers and think about this and what it means for our community.  The second question 26 during the past 12 months, how many times did someone you were dating or going out with physically hurt you on purpose? Counting such things as being hit, slammed into something, injured with an object or a weapon, right? So when we look at that, right, 11% of students in Stevens High School have experienced that in the last year, right? So one out of ten young people, right. So it speaks to the need for prevention. It speaks to the need for the healthy relationships education that we're doing and that we're so grateful to have so many strong partnerships in all of the schools here in Claremont, so that we can work to impact those numbers and change those numbers.
NEXT> Kerry Rochford: Question 23 is an adult or person at least five years older than you ever made? You do sexual things that you didn't want to, right? And it says here

[15607-261] Kerry Rochford | Prevention educator, Turning Points Network (Sullivan County's crisis  | 2024-03-06
PREV> Kerry Rochford: intercourse when you did not want to? Right. That's question 22, right. And you can compare you can see that data as it compares to Sullivan County as well as the state. And then looking at the last year, right during the past 12 months.
TEXT> So I want to go back for a second and just look at this one here, because I was kind of interested in when we put all of those, if we add up all the red together, we're talking over 20%  of students in our school district who are directly impacted  by the issues, who have witnessed abuse, who have experienced abuse. Right. 20%. That's 1 in 5 of our young people who have been impacted by this. And I think you all know and folks here can speak to how this impacts school, right? The kids bring this into school with them. They  the the impact of this violence on their lives and witnessing affects them and their relationships with their peers affects them and their ability to learn. Right. So it just speaks to the need for all of us to really develop a community response to this, because this is a community problem. This isn't a school problem, right? This is a community problem.
NEXT> Kerry Rochford: So I want to tell you some great things that are happening because I feel like, right, statistics can be tough to look at and to think about what this

[15607-262] Kerry Rochford | Prevention educator, Turning Points Network (Sullivan County's crisis  | 2024-03-06
PREV> Kerry Rochford: peers affects them and their ability to learn. Right. So it just speaks to the need for all of us to really develop a community response to this, because this is a community problem. This isn't a school problem, right? This is a community problem.
TEXT> So I want to tell you some great things that are happening because I feel like, right, statistics can be tough to look at and to think about what this means because one. Right. Any one person that this is affecting is too much. Right. We can all agree to that. So  and when I first started doing this work, someone shared a quote with me that has always stayed with me and that is that statistics are human beings with the tears wiped away. And, and I think about that right when we look at numbers, because sometimes we can look at numbers and we can think oh I'm glad it's not as high as this. Right. But really anyone in our community being impacted by this is important for us to figure out what we can do, what we can do differently. So there are some really amazing things happening here in Claremont. And Turning Points has been very lucky to have strong relationships in all of our schools here in Claremont over many, many years.  We offer curriculum in all three elementary schools and Claremont Middle School, which is the Healthy Relationships project.  And this this program in particular is looking at helping young people learn really critical social emotional learning skills, because we know that kids who have those skills that that helps, that's a protective factor and that helps to prevent abuse.
NEXT> Kerry Rochford: Right. And these are skills that they can use with their peers. They learn they get these positive skills to be practicing as young people so that when they get

[15607-263] Kerry Rochford | Prevention educator, Turning Points Network (Sullivan County's crisis  | 2024-03-06
PREV> Kerry Rochford: the Healthy Relationships project. And this this program in particular is looking at helping young people learn really critical social emotional learning skills, because we know that kids who have those skills that that helps, that's a protective factor and that helps to prevent abuse.
TEXT> Right. And these are skills that they can use with their peers. They learn they get these positive skills to be practicing as young people so that when they get to high school, right. They've had opportunity to learn these skills. You all know. We all know if we wait until high school to try to teach these skills. Right. We've missed the boat, right. So we want to be doing the work at the elementary level in the middle school level, and we're really grateful for the opportunity to do that. We have there is a  group of staff at the Claremont Middle School that have been working with us on looking at school climate and looking at, trauma and really working hard to think about what can we do to help create a positive school climate. What can we do to really create resiliency  among teachers and students? Right. And kind of promote that wellness from that angle. So not only looking at trauma, but looking at what are the factors that promote resilience. We have been really excited at the high school level to be working on some student leadership projects. One of them is bringing in The Bystander, which is a program that focuses on teaching young people positive bystander skills.
NEXT> Kerry Rochford: And we've had such a great response to that that we actually, for the first time, have a program that grew out of that. So we have kind of tiered,

[15607-267] Taylor Luke | Youth program specialist, TLC Family Resource Center - SELF-IDENTIFIES | 2024-03-06
PREV> Kerry Rochford: So that's right.
TEXT> So we're going to be up here together. But my name is Taylor Luke. I work for TLC Family Resource Center and Carrie does as well part time. So I'm going to go over, who we are and what services we provide. And then I'm going to bring Carrie back up so she can explain one of the curriculums that her and I actually co teach together. But for the services provided for TLC Family Resource Center, we have family support where we're supporting different families through workshops and individual support.  We have new mom groups. We have postpartum groups. We also have the recovery program where we're working with individual support as well as groups and classes. And then we have our rural outright and then youth programing, which I'm going to touch on primarily this evening. So I am the youth program specialist,  for TLC. So I work full time with the youth  and, and working to create more curriculum within the schools and also create more events for our youth. I know, as Scott had mentioned, we are trying to create after school activities to get our youth into. So they are seeing positives instead of having time for those negatives.
NEXT> Taylor Luke: So what we've done so far this year is we have targeted grades five through eight, and we are doing an event every other month here in Claremont. So in

[15607-268] Taylor Luke | Youth program specialist, TLC Family Resource Center - SELF-IDENTIFIES | 2024-03-06
PREV> Taylor Luke: create more curriculum within the schools and also create more events for our youth. I know, as Scott had mentioned, we are trying to create after school activities to get our youth into. So they are seeing positives instead of having time for those negatives.
TEXT> So what we've done so far this year is we have targeted grades five through eight, and we are doing an event every other month here in Claremont. So in December, we did an ornament ornament making event where we had 15 students show up.  We most recently during our February break, did a bowling event  where we had 27 students. So  the number is climbing and we are hoping to see that number climb once again in April.  We are planning a mini golf outing, so hopefully  we can get  all of  that and we can get the fliers out. The school has done an amazing job with helping us get the youth to  know that those are events are happening by putting them in newsletters, fliers. And then I believe even maybe morning announcements as well. So we really do appreciate that.  And then a curriculum that I am currently teaching is,  catch my breath vaping curriculum. So it is a five course curriculum where we talk about reasons why we start vaping.  We talk about the health effects.  We talk about the addiction portion of vaping.
NEXT> Taylor Luke: And then we really just go over resources that can help you quit. If that's something that you decide you want to do. It is an evidence based course. And

[15607-272] Kerry Rochford | Prevention educator, Turning Points Network (Sullivan County's crisis  | 2024-03-06
PREV> Taylor Luke: But I will stand up for questions that you have about vaping because I do teach that one. But, it was my first time teaching it with Carey for some. With that.
TEXT> And I'm going to put a different hat on. Yes. All right. And so my other hat is that I teach the Shine curriculum for TLC Family Resource Center.  And shine is a comprehensive sexual health curriculum for middle and high school students.  And it is also an evidence based curriculum. And we are we receive funding to be able to provide this to for young people up to age 19, pregnant and parenting up to age 21. Students do need parental permission, parent and caregiver permission to participate in the program.  One of the things that we love about this curriculum is that it is trauma informed. It's developmentally appropriate. It is focused on giving young people medically accurate information, to empower them to make decisions, to keep themselves healthy and to keep themselves safe. Many times, and what we hear, both from students and from educators, is there's so much that health teachers have to cover. And so sometimes students get right, they get the crash course and STI prevention or pregnancy prevention. But what we love about this curriculum is it takes it further, and it really looks at topics around consent and communication. Right. And when we talk about the statistic around alcohol use and substance use, right. We know that that interferes with people's ability to give consent.
NEXT> Kerry Rochford: And it interferes with people's ability to recognize consent and what that looks like. So we spend time the curriculum really has a lot of great scenarios to help young

[15607-273] Kerry Rochford | Prevention educator, Turning Points Network (Sullivan County's crisis  | 2024-03-06
PREV> Kerry Rochford: love about this curriculum is it takes it further, and it really looks at topics around consent and communication. Right. And when we talk about the statistic around alcohol use and substance use, right. We know that that interferes with people's ability to give consent.
TEXT> And it interferes with people's ability to recognize consent and what that looks like. So we spend time the curriculum really has a lot of great scenarios to help young people be able to actually identify what does consent look like  and what's the what's the legal definition of that? And how do we know when someone is giving consent? And what are the kinds of things that can interfere with consent? There's some lessons that focus specifically around risk and helping young people to identify what behaviors carry the most risk  for sexually transmitted infections, and also for pregnancy. And it gives young people the important piece of information, which is that up to half of high school students are not sexually active.  But what's happening is there's this myth, right, in this kind of stereotype that all high school students are sexually active. And so there's this indirect pressure that a lot of young people feel that they should be sexually active, or that if they're not, there's something wrong with them. Right. And so it's important to give them that information that a lot of young people are making the choice to postpone or delay sex because they don't feel emotionally ready for that, because they don't have the information that they need to make decisions around that.
NEXT> Kerry Rochford: I find young people are really, they want to know this information. They want to be empowered, and to have accurate information. And they understand that there are a lot

[15607-274] Kerry Rochford | Prevention educator, Turning Points Network (Sullivan County's crisis  | 2024-03-06
PREV> Kerry Rochford: so it's important to give them that information that a lot of young people are making the choice to postpone or delay sex because they don't feel emotionally ready for that, because they don't have the information that they need to make decisions around that.
TEXT> I find young people are really, they want to know this information. They want to be empowered,  and to have accurate information. And they understand that there are a lot of influences that are giving them sometimes inaccurate information. So it's helping them be able to know where they can go to get information to, to to really think about promoting their sexual health and healthy relationships. At the same time. Real focus on responsible decision making. This curriculum is also really tied in with social emotional learning skills, which we love about that because we know that sexual health is a lot more than just anatomy and teaching kids. You know, when I think back to my own education that I got in school and you all think about your education, right? A lot of times it was scary pictures of sexually transmitted infections, and they separated people by gender to teach this. And this curriculum does not do that. We don't show scary pictures and everybody is together because we know that everybody needs this information regardless of their gender, regardless of their sexual orientation. So that's one of the things that we also appreciate about this curriculum.
NEXT> Taylor Luke: And I don't think I mentioned this, but if I did forgive me, we are actually currently teaching both of these curriculums at the tech right now, and it's going

[15607-278] Scott Blewett | Prevention coordinator, Youth CAN - the Claremont-and-Newport Drug Fre | 2024-03-06
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Thank you.
TEXT> So including you package just some resources that we referenced. If you have any more information we can address some of those the next time we come.  What are the next steps? We would love to talk. Policy changes, behavior changes. Education for families, for kids, for for for grandparents. There's a lot of grandparents raising kids that are seeking information, community family conversations and how people can get involved. So we really appreciate you having us come to present to you.  Hopefully the next data will get in your hands in the next few months. And then if you could pass it off to us and then we'll come back and share our thoughts with you. But again, thank you very much for allowing us to use Claremont data, comparing it to the county, comparing it to the state. Thank you for for sharing that information. I think it's it's a wonderful thing to create benchmarks to show. We didn't want to come with a negative message because the majority of the kids are doing the right thing,  and we want to share that message. But again, we want to be real and we want to show you the numbers. And this is the information that the kids are telling us.  So we want to hear their voices and we want to share that. So thank you very much.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.

[15607-282] Scott Blewett | Prevention coordinator, Youth CAN - the Claremont-and-Newport Drug Fre | 2024-03-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: For you?
TEXT> What you're already doing is welcoming us. Taking advantage of the resources that we have, the signage and the educational booklets, I can speak from the youth camp perspective by taking those and putting them up in the school, so kids and families know the resources that are there. Inviting youth can,  to the open houses or the move up days. Thank you for doing that.  If you could encourage, and we can have conversations about how to create a youth action  club in Claremont, whether it's part of a school club, if it's a good fit to do in the building at some point during the day or, or after school, or if a better fit is is at the Fist library or the Trinity Church. I would love to have that, because I want it to be accessible for kids and families to get there. I want to I want to meet them where they're at. Having conversations.
NEXT> Scott Blewett: So those are just a few examples of what you can do for us. Newport right now, we started at the Epiphany Church, the Stone church. By the end of

[15607-283] Scott Blewett | Prevention coordinator, Youth CAN - the Claremont-and-Newport Drug Fre | 2024-03-06
PREV> Scott Blewett: better fit is is at the Fist library or the Trinity Church. I would love to have that, because I want it to be accessible for kids and families to get there. I want to I want to meet them where they're at. Having conversations.
TEXT> So those are just a few examples of what you can do for us. Newport right now, we started at the Epiphany Church, the Stone church. By the end of the common, we've moved across the street to the Richards Free Library, up the stairs at the ballroom on the third floor. It's not the ideal location. It's. It's good because a lot of kids come up, they go to school for basketball practice, for example, or they go to the rec center or the or the library, but the bulk of the kids are at the school, and maybe they have a little time before they catch a bus, because if they live outside of walking area, transportation might be an issue. That's a great thing about the bowling event that you can did in collaboration with TLC.  At Maple Lanes, there's a lot of kids that live in that part of Claremont. They were able to walk there. Where if it was a different activity, like at the community center and they live on that side of town, they might not have the transportation.
NEXT> Scott Blewett: So that's what we think about when we design activities is transportation is a big issue. And again, that program and all the programs we do are free for the

[15607-284] Scott Blewett | Prevention coordinator, Youth CAN - the Claremont-and-Newport Drug Fre | 2024-03-06
PREV> Scott Blewett: Lanes, there's a lot of kids that live in that part of Claremont. They were able to walk there. Where if it was a different activity, like at the community center and they live on that side of town, they might not have the transportation.
TEXT> So that's what we think about when we design activities is transportation is a big issue. And again, that program and all the programs we do are free for the participants through funding that youth can has or TLC has, for example.  But having conversations, Mr. Pratt has been fantastic in facilitating everything that I've had to do, and I'm sure with the others it's just great to have a conversation. Courtney Porter has been part of a lot of conversations, so you have the people in place that have been very helpful to us and very welcoming. So I appreciate that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you Scott.

[15607-286] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024, the nig | 2024-03-06
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you Scott.
TEXT> I just want to share and say, you know, thank you to youth can turning points in TLC because since I started here, it just integral part of  our success in the schools and what we're trying to do that's outside of the academics. And every step of the way, these three groups have just been so important to the schools and what we do. And, you know, I just look forward to continue, you know, building and working with all of you because you've been fantastic so far. So thank you.
NEXT> Scott Blewett: And I did say two names. I said Mr. Pratt and Courtney Porter, but I don't want to leave out Mr. Romeo and the crew at the middle school because

[15607-288] Taylor Luke | Youth program specialist, TLC Family Resource Center - SELF-IDENTIFIES | 2024-03-06
PREV> Scott Blewett: said Mr. Pratt and Courtney Porter, but I don't want to leave out Mr. Romeo and the crew at the middle school because the middle school has been fantastic, too. So I don't want to leave you out. Any questions for for the other two?
TEXT> Just one thing I want to add to, I know specifically for the events or the curriculum, I love feedback. I like to know what events are you hearing that the students want? I want to create events that they're going to want to come to.  And then what issues are you seeing in the school or what curriculum do you think that they may benefit from? We are looking to expand our curriculum, so any feedback is appreciated when it comes to that. Because we would like to get in curriculum that supports the needs of the students.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much. Thank you everyone. Really appreciate it.

[15607-295] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - NAMED FROM THE PODIUM BESIDE HIM: | 2024-03-06
PREV> Unidentified: Good.
TEXT> Real quick, we are going to talk a little bit about this trip. I'm happy to say that we're doing this trip again. It's hopefully going to be a mainstay for years to come. I know it's been a lot of fun. A lot of work has gone into it. I would say like 99% of this, 98% of this is grant funded. Thank you to Mary Henry and Mr. Kosky for some help on getting some breakfast, some money for some breakfast for the kids when they head out on this trip. I'm going to let Mr. Kennedy do most of the talking. He has worked just tirelessly with a whole bunch of folks at CMS and the work they put in. So I think this is your stage, man.
NEXT> Mr. Kennedy: What's really exciting to report to you is, I don't know, but at seems, as you said, stay close to the link. Sorry. At CMS, instead of. Study hall, we

[15607-309] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - NAMED FROM THE PODIUM BESIDE HIM: | 2024-03-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah, I think.
TEXT> That's a great question. So,  and even when we plan other things, we, we take a poll, even if we go up to a museum or something like that. Over half of our students have said that they have not left within this general area. And to see a game like this and talk. I there's got to be I mean, I don't know exactly the number on it. Well, over half that never been out to see a game or something like that. Absolutely.
NEXT> Mr. Kennedy: I pulled their eighth graders and I think there was there was less than 20 that in the Fenway Park.

[15607-331] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023; re-elected unoppos | 2024-03-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: Roughly 200.
TEXT> I just wanted to hear you say that there is  a way to for the kids to go if they can't come up.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: With always a way for any Claremont student to do just about everything we offer.

[15638-53] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the officer election) | 2024-03-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah.
TEXT> Is a big new. This is a I think it's a pretty big deal. And it's a, it's an addition to the, the middle school is that,  there's going to be a new automotive enrichment, which is basic automotive safety and upkeep, and they'll have small groups of students who are interested sign up in learning,  life skills that can be transferred to job opportunities in the future. So the kids will be learning how to change tires, change basic maintenance and minor repair on vehicles. In addition, the at the middle school they have the the dental initiative at the middle school.  The move in date is Monday, March 18th, and they'll be providing dental services until Tuesday, March 26th for the students. I'm going to skip over the two elementary schools that are presenting tonight, save you a little time.  So Disney training and professional development with the results of the mid-year benchmark assessments, along with classroom assessments and performance data. Each grade level team and classroom teachers and special educators and title on teachers meant to review the data of each child to plan for meaningful and appropriate small group instructions and practice.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Teams also looked at for patterns in the grade level data to potentially suggest a curriculum gap or need for further instruction as a large group mid-year. And I ready

[15638-54] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the officer election) | 2024-03-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: of the mid-year benchmark assessments, along with classroom assessments and performance data. Each grade level team and classroom teachers and special educators and title on teachers meant to review the data of each child to plan for meaningful and appropriate small group instructions and practice.
TEXT> Teams also looked at for patterns in the grade level data to potentially suggest a curriculum gap or need for further instruction as a large group mid-year. And I ready scores are and have been shared with staff.  Teams are asked to review the individual class groups goals and determine additional steps that could be taken to increase the child's or group exposure to practices to set. Set up the skills  using the data comparison that was under student achievement, culture and climate. Over $17,000 was raised for Disney and students to earn new books through their recent book blast.  And Maddie Kelly, the author of illustrator of many children's books, joined Disney prior to the break to launch the The February Break Reading Challenge. Curriculum and instruction for Disney at a march staff meeting will focus on the components of Udu Udall Universal Design for learning. The data clearly shows that our tier one instruction does not meet the needs of all the students. Teams will identify the universal Design for learning as a tool that can assist us in playing the process for instruction.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: She provided it a lot of the eye ready and data in there so the board can take a look at that. And moving on to the sugar River Valley

[15638-64] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the officer election) | 2024-03-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: was a special ed conference. The message was universal. The first, speaker we had was called George Cross, and he was he spoke about laying the foundation for innovation and education. And the second day we were able to hear a presentation from Doctor Laurie.
TEXT> She  talked about the neuroscience and the associated emotional needs for children and youth, and it talked all about how you know, what trauma affects what to look for, how can kids self-identify where they are in trauma and stuff like that?  But one of the things I took away from this, this conference, is that I am not a social media person. By all means, I don't belong to any social media. I've stayed away from it. So I'm working out of my own comfort zone. And so for those of you who it gets, tweet or twitter.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's x.

[15638-80] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member | 2024-03-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: No, please.
TEXT> I really like seeing this enrollment chart just to keep us focused on how many kids are in the school, including 32 out of district placements. It's just a real visual, quick keeping track of where our kids are and how many kids were responsible for.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: That's a good data, as only as good as we keep our school updated so it changes on a regular basis.

[15638-92] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the officer election) | 2024-03-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: I may be, preempting the principal's presentation, but is there it looks like there's a correlation between, negative growth in third grade. Is that a response to Covid response?
TEXT> And I think the principals can talk more about that. But I think a lot of the stuff that we're seeing, it's, you know, we can say some of it is, I'm sure not all of it, but, you know, some of it is because we're, we're having those that grade level having the kids who, you know, two, three is back. We've just started school in what it was like even before they pre-K was. So there are some correlations there, but I don't think it's 100%, but I'm sure but we found that that does have his have an effect on some of the mid elementary grades.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And I'm noticing the vast improvement from the fall to the winter for kindergarten. I mean, it says it tells me that I are now on the right track and

[15638-97] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: this evening. Unfortunately, Miss Miss Lewis is unable to attend. I leave it to you folks to decide which one would like to present first. It looks like, Miss Baker drew the short straw. This baker is our principal at Bluff Elementary. Good evening everyone.
TEXT> I just have a quick question for Jeff. There are some links embedded in this. Will you be able to click on them? So I. Just. First. Wanted to share our mission statement for Bluff Elementary School. We promote a safe, healthy, respectful learning environment. We work with students families in the community to maximize learning outcomes. We accept differences, foster cooperation, and cultivate a desire to be lifelong learners. So that's sort of our driving force behind the work that we do. I  have we're focusing here on a student achievement. And so  I wanted to point out that our staff recognizes the importance of building relationships and positive culture in conjunction with student academic achievement. So,  you know, things that it's an infographic that just shows, you know, where we're working on things like motivation and work ethic and determination, a love of learning. So those skills aren't always measured per se on a standardized test. But we we do work  on those on the daily basis. One of the things that we do to promote  climate and culture with student behavior is what's called a Dessa screener.  This is administered in the fall, and  it is what's called the mini screener. So all students in our school are screened, and any students who receive a red flag will then move on to a full screener.
NEXT> Christine Baker: So it's a more in-depth questionnaire about the student in particular. And a result, the results of that is that 31% of our students are showing gaps in one or

[15638-98] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Christine Baker: behavior is what's called a Dessa screener. This is administered in the fall, and it is what's called the mini screener. So all students in our school are screened, and any students who receive a red flag will then move on to a full screener.
TEXT> So it's a more in-depth questionnaire  about the student in particular.  And a result, the results of that is that 31% of our students are showing gaps in one or more of the competencies and require some instruction interventions. So I'll talk a little bit more about that in a second.  How are we targeting some of the knees needs? We work on some whole school and class lessons, and I just have an example relating to one of the competencies is relationship skills. And so just having students be really mindful of appreciating others and being able to articulate positive things.  We have we hold monthly school culture assemblies. And we have small group and one on one, 1 to 1 lessons as behavior interventions. This is the Dessa results.  So 31% is the equivalent of 55 students in our school. And this represents those 55 students. So you can see along the bottom those are the competencies self-awareness self-management, social awareness, relationship skills, goal directed behavior, personal responsibility decision making and optimistic thinking. We really trying to tune into the relationship skills piece. 63% of the 55 students need work in that area. So that's what that graph shows. The blue shows that they're on, that they're okay. And then the green shows that we have a little bit of a, meeting or above expectations in that competency school assemblies.
NEXT> Christine Baker: This is to celebrate success, to build school and community pride. I'm not sure why video link isn't there, so maybe you have to listen to it, I don't know.

[15638-101] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. Sounds like a story.
TEXT> Like a member of smart. And while he's loading that, I just thought I was going to make a comment about the behavior and the screeners. And there's a saying that's called, saying because our children need Maslow before they can bloom,  and Maslow refers to sort of those basic needs that kids need. And we we find a lot of, of our time is spent addressing some of that. We have grocery bag, we have between 40 and 50 grocery bags that go home with students every week to help support food needs. We're supporting kids who have experienced trauma, so making them feel safe and accepted here at school. So we do focus in on that, and that's one of one of the ways that we do it. What's that? I'm going to just switch for. A second. All right. So this just happened last week. So we again, it's a chant. We are bluff tigers.  All 175 students and staff have learned it. They practiced it in their classrooms.  And it started out small. And then actually, Alicia  Seminole and her class kind of added on a little bit of it. So we run through it twice. My voice is really loud in the background to start with, but then I kind of back up. So here we. We oh, it was worth it.
NEXT> Christine Baker: So yeah, they're very enthusiastic about it. And you know, the again, the goal of it is to have that school pride and come together, each, each month to celebrate

[15638-104] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Christine Baker: know, below, approaching or at grade level. And we look at specific skills and then start forming those groups based on that. But it just doesn't make money. We always have candy. Chocolate helps us look at our data. Oh, and then with that, I.
TEXT> Don't know if I can click on this link here. The the teams have created this is one particular grade levels data sheet with depth names, but. It's a snapshot. Of the assessments that we have. You know, so we have That we do I ready both in reading and math. And then in the just this past one, we did find text level reading level scores for each student. And so you can just look at it from. The fall to the winter. And it just gives a snapshot, you know, to see  the red and. The yellow. And then you dig into and I will click on these because it has the student names. But we dig into the specific skills within that. So if the student is falling in this red range, you know, what are the skills that we need to focus on. So we get a snapshot  to start off with and to sort of start our process with looking at that big picture and then dig down further. This is my last slide. So we just want to think about how we're, you know, what is the effectiveness of our school initiatives and how we're continuing to track through data. I mentioned the desert screener. We'll do it again in the spring, and hopefully we'll see a reduction in the percentage of students needing, intervention around behaviors.
NEXT> Christine Baker: Swiss is our behavior reporting system. So hopefully we see a decline in that along to show growth in those areas. We have our leadership team which is doing on

[15638-105] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Christine Baker: you know, what is the effectiveness of our school initiatives and how we're continuing to track through data. I mentioned the desert screener. We'll do it again in the spring, and hopefully we'll see a reduction in the percentage of students needing, intervention around behaviors.
TEXT> Swiss is our behavior reporting system. So hopefully we see a decline in that along to show growth in those areas. We have our leadership team which is doing on working ongoing work on school improvement.  And then our implementation of the school initiatives. You know, we're hoping to have all teachers trained in the responsive classroom approach. Just today we had polymath is at our school. She's a behavior consultant. So she's open to question, answer and helping teachers, respond to behaviors.  And then with within our academics, we measure it through our eye ready growth again, our leadership team ongoing work on school improvement. We are a designated school. So we're hoping that, we received some guidance from the Department of Education as to how we can move forward with action planning. We have created a little bit of a draft so far with things that we'd like to target. So we'll move forward with that. Again, professional development is always key in any any of these, you know, targets for student achievement. We've been working with Derek Staves, the math consultant, on different instructional practices.  Professional development around programing that we're implementing  and then working closely with the curriculum team. There's a lot of nice work being done on looking at report card standards.  Common assessments. And,  you know, how are we aligning to those standards within our curriculum? So that is just continued work around those initiatives.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there any board questions for the speaker rank?

[15638-124] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: So I'm going to sneeze. You said you had monthly assemblies. Could you tell us a little bit about what the focus of those assemblies are?
TEXT> You are. So we've we've had students I mentioned, we've had we celebrate students success around attendance. So it's a real motivator. They get a little certificate. We have had the Plymouth Plymouth State Tiger Group come in and do a performance. So sometimes it's a performance based and that's also a guidance. So they did a it's like a musical skit  around you know, anti-bullying and just, you know, that kind of thing. We later the last one we did was we were doing a march madness thing about coping skills. And so we did,  we did some explicit instruction at RSM about taking deep breaths to handle anger and frustration. And so the students vote on which strategy they might implement on a daily basis. And so we're we're narrowing it down. You know, at the end of the month we'll have our coping strategy of the month. So that was one of the focus is for our last assembly.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So it sounds like you have some student participation in these assemblies.

[15638-150] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Mike Koski: Nice.
TEXT> So please, come out and enjoy. It should be a fun night. So, my report this evening is really kind of focused on academic achievement. So I just kind of wanted to start there. I don't have pretty slides. I'm sorry, but if you want to see data. It is in Chris's report under Maple.  Some of our data. I just kind of wanted to, give the community and the board a sense of, you know, how we we focus on data and and student achievement at Maple?  We have basically two goals, and it's focused 100% on literacy and math,  and that our expectation is that students are going to make 100% gains. Some form or fashion,  they're going to make some growth. During the course of the year,  might not be where we want them to be. I'm going to be quite honest there. But,  if they're making strides and gains, that's important for us.  I do want to say, in my experience as a, as an educator over the years, I've kind of referred to the works from Kennewick, Washington.
NEXT> Mark Blount: They they did a they were a district that was very much in need of improvement, the entire district. And, they wrote about their stories and, I've used those kind

[15638-152] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Mark Blount: work. So what we do is we have biweekly grade level academic data team meetings. Some people have may call it professional learning communities. If you've heard those terms. So these are meetings that are structured. They're planned. So they're on a bi weekly basis.
TEXT> So I meet with them 30 to 45 minutes. The team leader of the grade level will plan the agenda. I may make some adjustments in the agenda as we go along,  but, These are facilitated by me. I think as the principal. I have to know what's going on,  you know, with all of the kids and where they're at. And I think it's it's crucial. Crucial that I'm at the table. So, these teams that I meet with and they rotate, I do all the grade levels, K through five. Also do one for special education  as well as the specials teachers. So the. Art, music and so on.  So, a classroom grade level team would include, you know, like second grade. They'll include the second grade teachers, special educator assigned, the case managers, those  students. It could involve the student support coordinator. The title one teacher is at all of the meetings.  So,  so we we sit down and basically these meetings are focused on monitoring and, really looking at student progress on a bi weekly basis. And, you know, we'll put in we'll put in different targets on students that will give it a try for 6 to 8 weeks. Based on  what, you know, what those needs are and we'll make adjustments. One nice thing about having the group together, it's very collaborative. So there's sharing of,  teaching resources, materials. How can we target the skills of  of the deficiencies or even enriching kids?
NEXT> Mark Blount: And what are some things that we can do? And we are always looking at adjusting instruction supports and the groupings based on student need and those targets. So in

[15638-153] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Mark Blount: Based on what, you know, what those needs are and we'll make adjustments. One nice thing about having the group together, it's very collaborative. So there's sharing of, teaching resources, materials. How can we target the skills of of the deficiencies or even enriching kids?
TEXT> And what are some things that we can do?  And we are always looking at adjusting instruction supports and the groupings based on student need and those targets. So in addition to the, in addition to I reading the data, we do use Lexia Lexia core five reading data. We use some of the newer measures that that we're we're now implementing, like the AMC math. We look at some of the materials this board approved last year. So we'll use the foundation's unit assessment data, Haggerty data, which is part of that literacy suite that the board approved last year.  We're constantly if if students are in red or yellow groupings, those kids are being monitored, once or twice per month,  depending on the group,  through devil's or other measures, so we can see the progress or lack thereof and how we can adjust that. What else did I want to say? The also, we do look at student attendance. That's a big piece when it comes to,  academic achievement. So we're, we're, we're we're constantly looking at that.  We do our school based professional development. We do align  the needs of supporting teachers and, and the growth of students. So some examples this year.
NEXT> Mark Blount: That we've done at Maple. We've done some lexia reporting and progress monitoring. That's that helps our our teams. We've done some training, which I know has happened across the

[15638-157] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. So, so the the data. Meetings. It sounds like it's an opportunity for for staff to share strategies. You know, they've their. Personal bag. Of tricks with.
TEXT> With other staff members. Absolutely. And you know, if you know if, if plan A doesn't work if the if the first you know, first six, eight weeks didn't work out. What are some other things can we do. What are some other approaches can we take. What are some different resources that we could use to to to see if we can't bring that student up. So no it's yeah it's a, it's a, it's a, it's designed to be collaborative and to really address what can we do to help our kids. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well what might the target of my comment is that how does a staff that is making progress help staff that's not enjoying the same success they are?

[15638-178] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member | 2024-03-20
PREV> Mark Blount: only an issue, probably at Maple, but all of our schools across the entire district. And, you know, we just, we got to have kids in front of us if we're gonna if we're gonna if we're going to make a difference. For that child.
TEXT> And  I'm frustrated to hear you say that, but I also think it's extremely important for the public to hear that attendance is an issue, because the citizens of Claremont, the School board, works, and the administration work hard to, to fund education, to provide staff, to have a school system. And it's only works if the students are in the classroom. And if the community wants to think of how they can help the Claremont School District improve student achievement. Getting the students to be in the classroom is is step one.
NEXT> Mark Blount: Yeah, those it's it's important to have them there. You know teachers want to have kids there, right? They want to help. So, so it is it's it's critical that

[15638-182] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member | 2024-03-20
PREV> Mark Blount: You know, our our regulars that we just would like to have them. At school.
TEXT> And that is a definite way to improve student achievement. To have the kids at school. Right. In a more positive way, I just like to comment that, I guess a week and a half ago. Bonnie Miles and Frank Sprague and I  went on a tour of Maple Avenue as part of the capital improvements.  And honest to the school look terrific. And we were so pleased with how clean the school was. Frank kept saying it smells wonderful. It doesn't smell like an elementary school. I tried to. Make it sound positive, Frank.
NEXT> Mark Blount: I'll just make a comment. I have to applaud, Stephen and his staff. We do. We hired this. Well, he hired this past year a very young. Custodian. And, came

[15638-183] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: as part of the capital improvements. And honest to the school look terrific. And we were so pleased with how clean the school was. Frank kept saying it smells wonderful. It doesn't smell like an elementary school. I tried to. Make it sound positive, Frank.
TEXT> I'll just make a comment. I have to applaud, Stephen and his staff. We do. We hired this. Well, he hired this past year a very young. Custodian. And, came on the day shift  doing a doing a fantastic and fantastic job. And, you know, it takes more than just the custodians, the staff and the kids,  right? Also, you know, they respect their school, and they want to make sure that it stays in good shape. So.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And just two more observations. First of all, while the school was immaculate, that was wonderful artwork of the student student artwork all over the school. And I was that

[15638-184] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member | 2024-03-20
PREV> Mark Blount: shift doing a doing a fantastic and fantastic job. And, you know, it takes more than just the custodians, the staff and the kids, right? Also, you know, they respect their school, and they want to make sure that it stays in good shape. So.
TEXT> And just two more observations.  First of all, while the school was immaculate, that was wonderful artwork of the student student artwork all over the school.  And I was that is so important.
NEXT> Mark Blount: So was, actually a mid-winter break. The break we had in February, she was there for days, hanging a lot of the work, getting.

[15638-264] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the officer election) | 2024-03-20
PREV> Mike Koski: Yeah.
TEXT> Right now it would be based on, you know, where we have  the room for the for the students to go, I mean, for the element, but this is for K-12. So the elementary schools, it's where we could would fit them. And then the middle school and high school would just be there.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Right. That's what we've had previous discussions about that. And we we decide which. It does. Look like. And does. Appear. That they provide transportation. And we're not. Yeah. Okay.

[15693-8] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative, Sullivan District 8 - SELF-IDENTIF | 2024-04-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: move the pre-populated agenda to the, We'll say. Well, thank you for. Okay. So there's any other requests not or approving altering the agenda further? No. CNN will consider consent. Next, we're moving on to citizens comments. Anyone in the citizens forum? Speaks? Three minutes.
TEXT> Yeah, I know the rules. Good evening everybody. For the record, hope Damon, state representative Sullivan, district eight, which obviously includes Claremont.  I have three things to mention to you tonight. One is this morning I had the wonderful opportunity to welcome fourth grade students from Bluff School to the state House. It's the best part of the job.  There were three reps. And senator there to welcome these very polite, very interested children. It was just delightful. They asked great questions. They had dressed up. They were impressed. And I just say thank you to the teachers and staff who made it happen. And I really hope we can get the other fourth graders from Claremont to have the same opportunity.  We have a fabulous visitor center director. She's a former teacher. She engages very, very well with the kids. They get to sit in the senator seats in the reps hall and sort of try it on. It was really great.  So when I'm sitting in my seat, they're currently working on a couple things,  and there are two bills I want to highlight to folks. These are House bills that have passed the House and are now in the Senate, and they would be valuable to school funding in Claremont.
NEXT> Hope Damon: I think I may have mentioned them previously, but now we've gotten to this part of the process where they are in the Senate. They're HB 15831583 and HB 1656.

[15693-54] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024; made pe | 2024-04-17
PREV> Unidentified: Welcome to be here.
TEXT> Nice to meet you guys. So,  some of the things you'll see in the report, you know, I felt worth mentioning is that I know a lot of times, you know, as us as, you know,  educators, we do go to professional development. And I think it's fair to only share that with the board in the community. When I do to go to professional development, what those are actually constitute of. So I did on March 14th and 15th, I attended the Association of Special Education Administrators, went to conference.  This was a two day event that was held in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. The first day we had a presentation by George Cross, the author of Laying the Foundation for Innovation and Technology, which was  an outstanding,  speaker.  He got us involved in regards to really looking at what it looks like to use  technology in the classroom with students as well as adults and administrators. That's what got me thinking about the whole twitch or the X, you know, to put that out there.  The second one, on day two, we had a presentation from Doctor Laurie De Santis, the author of Neuroscience and Social Emotional Needs for Children of Youth. And she talked a lot about  with the uptick in the social, emotional,  issues that were seen in school.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Is that what she's done around the country with different schools? And one of the things was, is that, you know, some schools have this curriculum now where you get

[15693-70] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024; made pe | 2024-04-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: look for. So we were watching actual instructional practice, and we were sitting in teams making observations of, you know, this is somebody in another school and, and then calibrating among ourselves what we saw so that we were using the tool the same way.
TEXT> I remember doing that. That's when the big buzzword was walk through is, I think when we first hit the market in regards to, you know, training ourselves of being consistent on how we're looking at things. So when we are going through the walkthroughs, we're all looking for the same things and not giving one. You know, I'd give the teacher a B, the other one to give them a C. Yeah. So yeah, I remember that doing it as well. And that's and that's what we want to do. We want to pump the brakes because, because right now,  you know, the group of teachers that Michael met with, we're we're on the same page and we want to keep moving forward in that. But it's like anything else, transparency is important that we're not hiding anything. This is why we're doing it. This is what we want to do because the ultimate is just improve instruction, because it's all about the kids. And so I think  we're moving in the right direction in regards to taking the next steps for  the evaluation tool we use. And you know, I'm looking forward to it. You know, getting that constant data throughout the school year rather than just having something sit in the file.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And this is the summary it was written. And as we all know too, it's like I reflect back on if I never if I only time I saw my

[15693-72] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member and CHAIR of the Finance subcommittee -  | 2024-04-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: 2 or 3 snapshots where it could have been a bad day, it could have been a great day, but now it's really focusing in on the culture of that class, the climate and the castle in the regular basis. So we're excited about it.
TEXT> So my other feedback is, well, I personally I think it improves the climate and culture a lot because teachers get used to you being there, the kids getting used to seeing you there. And  I found that, I'm going to say 98% of teachers loved having me come into their classroom.  Most of them did.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Well, they're proud of their work.

[15693-102] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: nurses, they're spreading the word around there. I have a couple of folks interested at this point. So we're going to see how that plays out. And so we're hoping to do depending on applications, those interviews in May and June so we can get.
TEXT> I know a lot of times you guys like the numbers. Let me give you some numbers that we've got coming up. Tomorrow night, eight students will be inducted into our National Technical Honor Society, and that will be held at the high school. We're going to be doing that with the the arts one and the  high school one. They have their the National Honor Society as well. Eighth graders came through in April. Early in April, they came through there's about 108th graders so that they could walk through and see. And it was funny because a number of those students came through our summer camps and they were like, oh, yeah, I took this class and I took that class. So they're excited to get back into the tech center. And there will be ninth graders and 10th graders. Ninth graders mostly will take intro courses, which are our elective courses  for each of our programs. Then  I want to give you some. One of the big things for CTE centers from the state is the push for industry recognized credentials. And I wanted to share with you that we've had 46 OSHA, ten completely out of our students.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Now, we had some that completed last year that are second year students. So we're probably at 99% of students completing. So that's been really good. 21 serve safe Iroc

[15693-104] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: doesn't waver too much, but we do have, on occasion, students that drop out for whatever reason. We still see that the travel back and forth between Newport and Claremont is a challenge. Some systems, it's kind of a challenge with the schedule as well.
TEXT> So we'll have to see how that plays out  on the  the new schedule that we're looking at with the periods and blocks and how we're going to play in that works. And then  we are now we're currently if students are local companies are looking for students. And this is the time I get a lot of phone calls from local companies looking for employees. If you send me your stuff  like a JPEG  and a little bit about what the position you're looking for, I'll post it on our Facebook as well as our website so that you can see. And so our students can see it, and we kind of direct our students, and then we'll send it out to them as well. It's just a good opportunity to kind of talk to our students about what kind of employments are out there and, and for our employers to look at our students as well. And then finally, we do have the,  summer camps coming up July 8th through 12th, and that is for middle school students. It's five fun, full days of tech center camps. We usually get about 50 students. The quantities have been great to help support us. We use Perkins that money to fund that. So it's completely funded from outside sources.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: And really the only thing we use from the district here is the buildings during that time. So they covered supplies and they pay for the teachers and all the

[15693-106] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: it's an educational piece in the center. We using about 50% of leftover materials and about 50% of donated materials. We built this shed for the Kiwanis so they could use it in their option, so that they could use it for a fundraising effort.
TEXT> As you can see,  I'm not going to mention any names, but someone amongst you bid on it and bid it up for me. So thank you very much.  But nice little shed. It was a utility tool shed a four by eight. And the hard part we can do sheds. The problem is, you know, we had the eclipse, we had a snow day, we had a half day here and trying to get the students to come in and finish. So our education is our first focus. If we commit to doing a shed for you, it's going to take a while. We've just talked to the city about potentially doing their dugouts.  We're going to build those in our shop over the next year. They're going to provide all the supplies and materials. We'll provide the labor to build them. And then I love that community partnership that we can do, and then we can kind of just the kids can say, hey, I built that. I'm a part of that  Sullivan County. We had a great gazebo built out there as it's still out there by the nursing home. Or did they put it out back out there?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Not just they.

[15693-108] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Not just they.
TEXT> Moved it. They moved it. Okay. So but  we had the inmates come in at that time and they worked on that all summer long. And we did a great project there  and those kinds of things we could give back to the community, and we'll do little shop jobs.  We fix the benches at one time in the city so that  while it was as repainting and putting new wood on them, those kind of projects make the students feel like they're a part of something. And when you. And then one summer we built picnic benches and the kids had races on how good they can build. And so a lot of fun. And then one of our Perkins purchases a year ago was this laser in printer for students to use in our shop, and that's what they're doing. That piece of wood there is about yay big, and they can do laser and printing on it. The goal is here is to put something like that with laser printing inside every shed. So when or anything we build so it looks like, hey, the tech center a little branding marketing. So and that's it for me.  Do you guys have any questions that you'd like to ask?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Candy. Candy?

[15693-110] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected 3/12/20 | 2024-04-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Candy. Candy?
TEXT> First of all, I have a comment.  I was fortunate to sit in on the, the SRF interviews with the students  when the two people from SRM were here and they interviewed the students at the Tech Center for about an hour, an hour and a half, and there must have been 8 or 10 students who sat in on that process. And I have to say, I was so proud of those kids. They were they were absolutely wonderful. I mean, I was really so proud of them. They were,  energetic. They were thoughtful. You can you could tell they had thought about it.  Their their comments were,  well, substantiated and  I just, I, I was just so glad  to be able to witness, that that positive experience. Question is tell me again about summer school  and who goes to the summer school.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So it's a summer camp for one week, usually the week after 4th of July week, and only students going into sixth, seventh and eighth grade. The focus is on

[15693-146] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I just have a quick question. Yes, definitely. Are you. Going to be doing another career. Day this spring?
TEXT> You know, I talked to Mr. Pratt about that. We just didn't have the bandwidth looking at trying to add the new Ma program as well as a career counselor.  So what we're doing is offering all these folks an opportunity to either come in and visit with our students or send us material, and we'll put it on our website and send it out to the students.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So you're focused on the program implementation? Correct. More for this for this spring? Yes. Which is absolutely fabulous. And the idea of lab coats, white coats for the medical.

[15693-225] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected 3/12/20 | 2024-04-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah.
TEXT> Just I, I see these coaches as resources. I mean, as a resource. And I think that, I mean, the way I you've led me to understand it is they really are a resource to improve curriculum. I mean, that's how we're using them. And so if the teachers see that this is this is a resource, they have to improve the delivery of services to the kids then. And it's not what's the right. Yeah. Yeah. It's not not prohibitive. Yeah. Right. But it's not.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Peer to peer.

[15693-230] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) - her chairmanship o | 2024-04-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: Exactly. Right. Right.
TEXT> And and and it also opened, I believe it opens up the dialog among the classroom teachers themselves, because as the coach is in a room and sees something that is outstanding, opens up that opportunity for communicating across a grade level or vertically. So it just opens up the whole profession in a non evaluative way. Right. But but an expectation to that our kids will be achieving and succeeding.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah you're exactly right. Because at the high school you know when Rick was, you know in that position before he needs to intern assistant is that he would be

[15693-268] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (re-elected 3/12/2024; chair since 4/5/2 | 2024-04-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So e.g. instructional coaches social worker. Yeah okay. Okay. That's I get it now. And then one last question. Under the first meeting in June, what is grade 11 school. Day I. I know what's a T is.
TEXT> Because  in this district all the kids take it the sat on one day school day in school.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Okay. Thank you.

[15693-297] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member and CHAIR of the capital improvement sub | 2024-04-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yes.
TEXT> Just by the gyms. Right. Just by the gyms. Because that's what everybody goes. And we just selected. Well, I did expected just these two schools because, all the kids go to those two schools. So that's why. And when we look at  the middle school, the bathrooms is so outdated. It's not it's a better word inviting, but, you know, as the fighting. But I'm not trying to say. It's. Just. When you it's. Yeah. And it's just it doesn't look like, like even if you go to a business office, you're.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Not proud of it the way it looks.

[15722-8] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT of Schools, SAU 6 - the chair hands him the flo | 2024-05-15
PREV> Chris Pratt: Esser grants, we added a phase two. And what is going to happen during that phase two is that the Southern Regional Education Board is going to provide training and staff development on implementing programs of study, the creation of programs of study and documents.
TEXT> Because currently what we have right now is not necessarily a program of studies, but it's just a course catalog. And so with that, it's going to  take a look at the course of studies. And the big thing is really looking at the pathways that  to develop a program of studies to a clear career pathways and seamless transitions to post-secondary education and careers that is integral part of the success for the tech center in the high school. The first phase will be to support already existing programs that the high school offers and what the tech Center already offers. And so what they're going to do is that we'll have on site workshops,  to work with the staff at the administration to create the new  course of studies.  And we also will  develop templates to create the program of studies and documents. They'll do that through virtual sessions and in-person sessions to interview and gather the information. And once that's completed, what we're hoping to do is that based on what we currently have at the high school, and I guess I'm wearing two hats tonight based on the form of principal in the current superintendent, is that we want to create pathways that if they're pathways at the career center, we want to make sure that the same options are there for the students at the high school.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And so aligning the two schools will allow us to do that and offer more to the kids at the high school to open up the doors for the tech

[15722-9] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT of Schools, SAU 6 - the chair hands him the flo | 2024-05-15
PREV> Chris Pratt: hats tonight based on the form of principal in the current superintendent, is that we want to create pathways that if they're pathways at the career center, we want to make sure that the same options are there for the students at the high school.
TEXT> And so aligning the two schools will allow us to do that and offer more to the kids at the high school to open up the doors for  the tech center when the pathways are truly what the pathway kids want. Because I think we all agree, is that when you're looking at what tech centers  are now and what they were 20, 30 years ago, we're trying to break down those misconceptions of what a tech center is. And we're hoping by creating these pathways that students can say it shouldn't be an option if you're not going to college. We want to have your tech center classes. It should be one and the same. It should be kids have to stay in that. A lot of kids could start college and not finish it for financial reasons. A lot of students can say after they're out of school for a while, want to go to college, but tech center should be a viable option for all the kids at the high school, because we know now with the price of education, that could be a way for them to finance their post-secondary education.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: They're already if they if they can graduate high school with an associate's degree or a certificate in some of the trades, they can use that to support their own

[15722-10] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT of Schools, SAU 6 - the chair hands him the flo | 2024-05-15
PREV> Chris Pratt: for a while, want to go to college, but tech center should be a viable option for all the kids at the high school, because we know now with the price of education, that could be a way for them to finance their post-secondary education.
TEXT> They're already if they if they can graduate high school with an associate's degree or a certificate in some of the trades, they can use that to support their own education, or so they're not final. They're not falling on financial hardship. You have kids who go to college and decide college is not their thing. Okay, now they have that certificate from the tech center and electricity electricians or  home building or whatever it is. So we want to make sure these kids are where these options and they have those options. And hopefully through working with SRM for the phase two of this project, that that's going to bring us together. So we really are creating truly pathways for the high school students. And so that's that's the first initiative we have. That's that's grant funded through Essa. The second one is when I was a superintendent in Vermont, we used a company out of Boston called the District Management Group, and they're out of Boston. And what we're looking at is they're going to come in because as most of you know, we currently don't have a strategic plan for SO6. And strategic plans are very important in regards to guide us where we're going.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's the map. If we don't have a map, you know, then we really don't know how to get to our destination. So they're going to come in. It's going

[15722-34] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - she gavels in ('I would like to call t | 2024-05-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: Thank you.
TEXT> Moving on to our action  and discussion items. First item on the docket this evening is a brief presentation from the youth about the youth and government experience. Experience. And  Miss Chastain has been unbelievably flexible and  has endured multiple changes of dates.  And we greatly appreciate both the student representatives for being flexible. And we know this is a busy time of year for you. So first, I'd like to extend a thank you to you all.  We have Miss Chastity and Aubrey Herzog and Gage Morin here. Please approach the podium.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: Good evening. I and social studies teacher at Stephens. I'm also the advisor for these in government. I've been in the position a little over almost 15 years now, and

[15722-35] Ms. Chastain | SOCIAL STUDIES TEACHER, Stevens High School, and ADVISOR to the Youth  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: the student representatives for being flexible. And we know this is a busy time of year for you. So first, I'd like to extend a thank you to you all. We have Miss Chastity and Aubrey Herzog and Gage Morin here. Please approach the podium.
TEXT> Good evening. I and social studies teacher at Stephens. I'm also the advisor for these in government. I've been in the position a little over almost 15 years now, and I've had helped this year from Matt Bean and Beckham Menard, who both love the program, and I'm hoping to  eventually have them take my place since I'm getting long in the tooth. This year, I have to say, my kids are incredible.  We have a relatively small delegation compared to many schools in  youth and government. We had around ten kids this year. We had more success getting bills on the floor this year than I've ever seen in all my years in the program. They were incredible.  We also had,  for the first time in  my time in this program, I've had two kids,  be elected governor in less than ten years. Aubrey being the second, she'll be the governor serving next year.  So,  I mean, just kudos to my kids are in the,  slideshow that I gave you. And I'll be honest, I'm not very good with tech, so I don't know if this is going to work. I just put in some pictures from the delegation this year.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: The first picture I just want to point out, because you can see that there are more than ten kids there. We also this year we brought a couple of

[15722-36] Ms. Chastain | SOCIAL STUDIES TEACHER, Stevens High School, and ADVISOR to the Youth  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ms. Chastain: mean, just kudos to my kids are in the, slideshow that I gave you. And I'll be honest, I'm not very good with tech, so I don't know if this is going to work. I just put in some pictures from the delegation this year.
TEXT> The first picture I just want to point out, because you can see that there are more than ten kids there. We also this year we brought a couple of kids to pre-launch who were not technically part of the program because we want to get new blood in the program and it worked really great. We  I added, Roger was in one of the rooms with me when we were in committee, and so at the end I asked her. I said, so what do you think? And she's like, I'm bummed I'm not going over for the overnight. So  that bodes well for next year, I hope.  And of course they learn the process and how to do it and that type of thing.  Aubrey and apparently my video didn't get in there, I don't know,  Aubrey  is going to be governor next year,  and I'm very proud. It was a close  election, I know for sure.  Oh, there's the video. And,  there, if it comes up, there's a picture of some of our kids and  there's video in it. So if you guys are on Google,  there's video of our students speaking on behalf of their bills while they're in committee.  I always am taking video and and taking pictures and everything.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: And then of course we have there, there. And we had our kids submit 14 bills with only ten students in their, Evan La Plante gets the record for doing

[15722-37] Ms. Chastain | SOCIAL STUDIES TEACHER, Stevens High School, and ADVISOR to the Youth  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ms. Chastain: a picture of some of our kids and there's video in it. So if you guys are on Google, there's video of our students speaking on behalf of their bills while they're in committee. I always am taking video and and taking pictures and everything.
TEXT> And then of course we have there, there. And we had our kids submit 14 bills with only ten students in their,  Evan La Plante gets the record for doing the most  And Evans bills were very much talked about. And of the 14 bills, we had six make it through committee and then make it to the floor of the House. And for  a delegation as small as ours, that's like unprecedented.  We I would say we had I can safely say I think we had more than any other school make it to the floor.  Well, I want to go back for a minute. That's  Gage and Evan actually defending one of their bills on the floor.  The bills that made it,  we had creating mandatory workforce preparation class. That was primarily Gage's bill, a cap on insulin costs for low income families. That was bribery. And, Michelle,  medical practices approved with the FDA materials or age bracket regulations will be optional between patient doctor that was legally for the most part, but also Aubrey.  We had proper grooming by Evan La Plante. It was deemed unconstitutional, but the House did pass it and there was an uproar  of clapping.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: I unfortunately, I was in another meeting and I, I could tell Evansville was being discussed and I made Matt go and I'm like, take this. And you knew that

[15722-39] Ms. Chastain | SOCIAL STUDIES TEACHER, Stevens High School, and ADVISOR to the Youth  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ms. Chastain: And and that is the intent of the program. Tonight, I have engaged with me. To tell you guys how it's impacted them. I've also brought a bill book. You guys can fight over it. I try to steal as many as I can. But.
TEXT> This is the books you can read our students bills. Also in there is the newspaper where you can see some of these articles. But I can tell you, we have some of the greatest students in our youth and government program. And this year's group was incredible. I'm more sad that I'm losing half of my delegation because they're seniors and two of them are here.  So. This. Is Aubrey and this is Gage. And I'm going to give it to them. Okay.
NEXT> Aubrey Herzog: Thank you for this opportunity to speak to you today about youth in government. I'm Aubrey Herzog and I'm a junior at Stevens. And I've been this club for three

[15722-40] Aubrey Herzog | STUDENT, Stevens High School (junior) and newly elected NEW HAMPSHIRE  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ms. Chastain: and government program. And this year's group was incredible. I'm more sad that I'm losing half of my delegation because they're seniors and two of them are here. So. This. Is Aubrey and this is Gage. And I'm going to give it to them. Okay.
TEXT> Thank you for this opportunity to speak to you today about youth in government. I'm Aubrey Herzog and I'm a junior at Stevens. And I've been this club for three years. And I think this is by far, like one of the coolest experiment experiences that Stevens has to offer.  The program is through the YMCA, and high school students in New Hampshire take over the state capitol for two days. We sit in the committee rooms, the House and Senate chambers, the New Hampshire Supreme Court,  and even the governor's office. So this year, I ran for the position of youth governor, and this was a unique opportunity to run my own campaign, give speeches, and network with kids my age. I was able to share what I wanted to do to improve the program and go through an interview by the press corps without knowing the questions beforehand. It gives you the opportunity to actively participate in government, even when you're not old enough to vote. I believe the best way to learn about government is through holding a mock one. This year, I was a committee chair for the Health and Human Services Committee. I chaired bills ranging from artificial intelligence, raising the legal marriage age, making seatbelt mandatory for everyone, proper grooming, which was a bill that required everyone in the state to be bald, and legalizing euthanasia.
NEXT> Aubrey Herzog: In my committee, I also had my own bill about implementing mental health days in schools. This is a policy in many other states already, and I base my bill

[15722-41] Aubrey Herzog | STUDENT, Stevens High School (junior) and newly elected NEW HAMPSHIRE  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Aubrey Herzog: a committee chair for the Health and Human Services Committee. I chaired bills ranging from artificial intelligence, raising the legal marriage age, making seatbelt mandatory for everyone, proper grooming, which was a bill that required everyone in the state to be bald, and legalizing euthanasia.
TEXT> In my committee, I also had my own bill about implementing mental health days in schools. This is a policy in many other states already, and I base my bill off of those. It was to allow students to take three mental health days a year on top of their parent excuse days. The delegates really liked this bill, and it made it all the way to the executive office, where it passed into law. At the end of the two days, I was sworn as sworn in as youth governor. I will tend the Youth Governor Conference in Washington, DC on June 9th through 13, and I'm looking forward to meet with  with the other governors from other states and learn about the youth and government programs. One goal of mine as governor is to implement state advocacy days, where we go to the Capitol and speak on real legislative issues. This is similar to when I went to D.C. in the past, this past February, for National Advocacy Days, where I was flown out to advocate for the YMCA legislative priorities. Overall, youth in government is such a wonderful program that I'm so happy to be to have been involved with. I've made countless friends all over the country and I'm so grateful for advisors, my advisors, Miss Chasin, Mr. Bean and Miss Menard for supporting me and being so enthusiastic about government and pushing me to run for office and go to Youth Advocacy Days.
NEXT> Aubrey Herzog: Thank you for taking the time to let us speak with you today.

[15722-47] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - she gavels in ('I would like to call t | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ms. Chastain: I want to add. That these these two are very modest in that, Aubrey didn't tell you. Also, she won best chair award this year, and Gage got the character development award.
TEXT> Thank you so, so much for coming out. Is there any questions that anybody in the board would, other than the praise that we all feel like compelled to give? I have. One question. What what more can we do to support you as a board? This is fabulous. And the role of schools that you create future citizens, how can we help you even more? Is this for me or the kids? Either one. Either one.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: As an advisor, I mean, I, I feel like the only thing that holds back some of our kids in our community. The program costs 200 and. 30 or 20.

[15722-48] Ms. Chastain | SOCIAL STUDIES TEACHER, Stevens High School, and ADVISOR to the Youth  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: One question. What what more can we do to support you as a board? This is fabulous. And the role of schools that you create future citizens, how can we help you even more? Is this for me or the kids? Either one. Either one.
TEXT> As an advisor,  I mean, I, I feel like the only thing that holds back some of our kids in our community.  The program costs 200 and. 30 or 20. 220 right now.  For a student to participate in the program, which goes toward hotel and the bill books, that type of thing.  Some students get afraid by the cost, which we are lucky that the Y does have scholarships.  But it certainly wouldn't hurt if we had a slush fund for students, you know, that are afraid that they can't do the program because of the cost. We've been we've been lucky all of the years that I've been part of the program that the money, for the most part, has not been an issue. But it's sometimes it sometimes could be a little helpful because sometimes I have students, you know. Yeah, they might get the scholarship to do the program for that $220. But you also have the expense. Sometimes they may or may not have a suit.  Maybe even it's just a tie. But also  one of the cool things that I try to sucker the kids into as part of the program is when we're down in Concord,  they get to have they get to have an hour and a half. Lunch.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: And they get to go to any of the restaurants that they want, and the main drag and concord. And that does cost money. I mean, the average lunch down

[15722-58] Ms. Chastain | SOCIAL STUDIES TEACHER, Stevens High School, and ADVISOR to the Youth  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Gage Moran: A little bit of luck.
TEXT> It was it was me saying. Hey. You should join us. We have cookies.  And so, you know, I was able to get a couple to go, but I, I do I'll wrangle kids in the home. Like, you'd be really good at this. You should come and I can get some of them, but I can't get all of them.  I I'm hoping maybe next year. Maybe what I could do if I could work with Doctor Harrington is,  get Aubrey and the kids that I have left, if we can, during advisory. You know, they could go and speak to freshman advisories and say, this is what we do. Because then going to those advisories and them telling what it's like is worth a million more dollars than what I could ever say, because I'm an old fart that teaches history. They don't care what I. Think, right? So  you know that they are way more valuable than me, which is why I dress down to so you guys can pay attention to them.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Good. Thank you.

[15722-63] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT of Schools, SAU 6 - the chair hands him the flo | 2024-05-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> I just want to say, as your former principal and now the superintendent. How proud I am of the students and the advisors of this group. You guys are just some of the many shining stars that we have in this district, and giving you the opportunity to share your story and your experience, not just with the people here, but the public. Yeah. Is what we want, right? You know, I think we undersell ourselves. So thank you for stepping up and doing this work and everything that you're representing for Claymore in the high school. I'm very proud of you guys on so many different levels.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Good. You're truly. A credit to the community and your families. And thank you so much for taking the time to share these wonderful experiences with us. Appreciate it. Thank

[15722-73] Kat McLaughlin | CURRICULUM DIRECTOR, SAU 6 - she presents the K-8 instructional-math p | 2024-05-15
PREV> Mike Koski: Warmed up the crowd for you.
TEXT> So I just want to update the board and let you know what we've been working on, and also ask for your support in purchasing these programs.  The current situation is that math and focus is not aligned to the standards. We've had it for about, I think, five years. Prior to that, we had everyday math, which is also not aligned to the standards. So that means that the district has never been aligned to the standards.  Which has also made it difficult to ensure that students have the learning experiences that they need to have from kindergarten all the way up through 12th grade to make sure that they can reach their potential in mathematics. The results, I think, speak for themselves. I personally believe that we can do substantially better and that our kids are capable of a lot more. So there are a few things that are happening. We've had the district math consultant Derek Staves come in, and he's worked with most of our teachers at this point, and he's coming back in June, and we already have teachers signed up for that. We have  a  new hires coming in. They are starting to sign up for that.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: So that's really exciting. We have, the AMC early Numeracy assessments, which we paid for with grant funding this year. If you've seen, or are familiar with the assessment for

[15722-90] Kat McLaughlin | CURRICULUM DIRECTOR, SAU 6 - she presents the K-8 instructional-math p | 2024-05-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Okay, so that's what we're doing now is more challenging problems or.
TEXT> Right, right. But there is also I think it's helpful to understand too, that if everybody is aligned to the standards, that the level of rigor is going to go up for all students.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Miss Hawkins, I think that you may have referenced this when you were answering Mister Patron. But I was I read through this. I was wondering, are there tiers that

[15722-108] Kat McLaughlin | CURRICULUM DIRECTOR, SAU 6 - she presents the K-8 instructional-math p | 2024-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: raises heck with pacing. If you've got someone who's doing coverage and somebody else is doing mastery, right. So, I would hope that that would be part of the PD, that somehow what the what the district's message is, is going to be on that.
TEXT> Right. So what I'm trying to do,  and I should state too, that my background is as a middle school math teacher and then an instructional coach for mathematics. And I've done this work now for 8 to 10 years in terms of helping districts aligned to the standards and helping teachers  improve learning outcomes. And one of the things that's really helpful for teachers is understanding what are the most essential concepts for my grade level, and then what are the things that I can teach for exposure. So, for example,  first grade students need to be fluent with numbers one through ten. They need to be able to add and subtract,  and they need to be able to do that quickly and accurately. Shapes are not so important. Not that they're Not that students wouldn't learn shapes, but number one, they get exposed to that in their everyday world.  There are ways for teachers to expose kids to that. Those concepts and what those shapes are that can be incorporated into art.  So there are a variety of different ways to make sure that kids develop that essential understanding of shapes without necessarily focusing on that exclusively for two weeks. In math, if the students really need that additional time to become fluent within one through ten. So I'm really trying to help the district focus on the concepts from kindergarten to eighth grade that lead to success in algebra one.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We used to call that the must haves and the nice to knows.

[15722-164] Alex Herzog | DIRECTOR of the Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC)  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: This is a great opportunity. And they're crazy if they miss it.
TEXT> Right? Right. Well, we've had great, great reviews, rave reviews  for students that have gone through. And we've been tracking to see and we do get a good number of students that have gone through the summer program that are excited about coming back here. Good. There's a little gap because in ninth grade, they always get to take the electors that they want. But we've had actually this year, we had a student that took one of our electives and came to me and said, can I work the summer camp? And because it's Perkins funded, we can hire our students from here to work for that week and be a part of that.  That's what we're going to do.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It's a great way for them to be introduced to the tech center.

[15722-212] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - she gavels in ('I would like to call t | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ben Nester: since 1819. We transitioned a number of students in and out of that program very successfully. And I feel like, you know, this year in particular, the program has absolutely gelled and become like a real, a real positive, very positive thing. Worse worth mentioning.
TEXT> What would you say  the transition rate is, say, in the pride program now that it's jelled? So you have like, is it 25% of the students that are enter the program by the next school year, they are able to exit or and integrate into the regular classroom setting.
NEXT> Ben Nester: That's a great question. I, I mean, I guess what I mean by gelled or really come together is, is the program really, is just like a well-oiled machine right

[15722-308] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member - she reads the ROLL CALL in the clerk's | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford.
TEXT> I'll make the motion to have Miss Whitney sign for on behalf of the Clements School Board  to agree to this side by letter of agreement.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: There a second. I'll second that. Is there. Any further discussion beyond what we've already taken time for? Mr..

[15722-339] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District - she presents the S | 2024-05-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes.
TEXT> We. Pay to send some of our kids out to the company, bought and stuff like that.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And we haven't spent any of. That.

[15786-12] Tess Nicholson-Powers | Director, District Management Group (strategic-planning consultant) | 2024-06-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: in speaking, we're going to close citizens comments, and we're going to move forward with our first agenda item, which is the DMG presentation for strategic planning for our strategic planning process. And, Tessa, I'm sorry I don't have your last name, but welcome to.
TEXT> Nicholson Powers. Yes. Thank you. Yes.  Good evening. It's great to see you all. And thank you so much for having me. Yes. Excited to talk tonight, both about how the district is going to approach the strategic plan, the why and the what, and then we'll talk about how that is going to work. So just introduction of myself. I'm a director at District Management Group. I  and I will be leading this work with my team who's not here tonight.  I've done this work in over 60 school districts across the country, from small one building school districts in Kentucky to Los Angeles and many places in between. And I lead our strategic planning and special education practice areas at DM Group. So I'm very excited to be with you all tonight. So just to give you a little background on district Management Group,  we fundamentally believe that in order to create systemic change in public education, there needs to be a focus both on educational but also management best practices. So through the strategic planning work, we will have a relentless focus, of course, on student outcomes, but also strategic resource allocation and operational efficiency to see the results you want for students.
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: As I mentioned, we've worked with hundreds of districts across the country. You can see some examples here, but supporting millions over students. We have a few different business units

[15786-14] Tess Nicholson-Powers | Director, District Management Group (strategic-planning consultant) | 2024-06-05
PREV> Tess Nicholson-Powers: for common elements, which you can see here. We found that only 3% of strategic plans we studied had some type of prioritization, 3 to 5 priorities. What we typically find is strategic plans can be very lengthy, beautiful documents that sometimes live on shelves.
TEXT> I and don't actually guide the day to day work of the district. In addition, when we talk to folks in multiple districts stakeholders, whether it be school leaders, staff, community members, families sometimes don't feel like their voice is heard. And it was written, you know, in a separate room. So really, our approach was founded on this research and discussion with others. So a couple of key components of our strategic planning approach that are important. So the first one there is getting alignment among stakeholders. And I'll talk about how we've already started doing that  ability to prioritized having a short list of priorities to stay focused,  setting a guiding theory of action strategy that drives budget choices so that budgeting will become those decisions, hopefully a little easier once you align on strategy. And then lastly, being able to track progress against your strategy. So having actual targets goals to know if you were successful. So with that this is our framework. We printed it out  for school and district leaders today to hang in there offices  and of course starts with the mission and vision. What are the aspirations that you hope to be true for the students you serve and the district?
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: Going into a theory of action. So I'll spend a little time here. You may have heard this called Theory of change, but essentially a theory of action is your

[15786-31] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Melissa Lewis: I will defer to Mr. Kosky.
TEXT> Yes, we're. We're looking at doing a trimester grading for elementary. The first quarter makes itself for a very short grading period, particularly in the younger grades. And so several weeks are spent just getting kids accustomed to school. And then we end up with six weeks of material to grade from. And so by extending it to a trimester, we get a better picture of the child early in the school year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Great idea.

[15786-69] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: that our Swot analysis was provided. To our consulting team and to the administration to help incorporate those goals within the strategic plan. And so that's all I have to offer on that agenda item. Moving forward to the New Hampshire sass. Results. Mr. Costa.
TEXT> Great. So the first thing to note is English scores have not yet been released. We were told May and then June, and,  they did a new writing.  Sample in the scoring is taking longer than expected. So here are overall grades 3 to 8.  Were Sass scores in math. Now I'm afraid I don't have them on the slides. I'm sorry, but the the state average for math was 43% and the English average was 51%. We won't we won't be able to compare English scores tonight. But that was from last year. So math 43% and then science 37% moving from left to right. These are our best scores. Those are the lower scores. Red is a below grade level. Yellow is approaching. Green is on grade level and blue is above. So we, we have about half of our students for  proficient than the state average does. And when you look overall now that isn't encouraging. It shows us we have work to do. But as we break it down a little bit, there are some bright spots.  Here they are by school and grade three. I just want to note over at, bluff, our grade third grade students perform much better. This is their, overall score of 26%, but it's much better than the rest of the district. And we have some teachers there that are doing a great job in improving.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And I like to think of don't have direct evidence, but I like to think it's based upon the PD that we did last year with our math instructors. And

[15786-72] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Mike Koski: the strand data in the end of June. Grade five science. Science is tested grades five, eight and 11. And it's an accumulation of science in grades three, four and five for this grade five test. The state average was 37% for the science exam.
TEXT> And we're we're lagging behind. I would say a bigger part of our,  science grade is the  need to improve reading skills. Almost every science question has a section of reading that needs to be done and understood. And then you read graphs, you read pictures, you read data charts and then apply that information back and forth. And so by building our students reading skills, we'll see these scores improve. Here's the grade eight science again. Seventh eighth grade had half a year of online science and a half a year with a teacher. I think that has impacted their scores. And then grade 1,121% compared to the 37% state average. Looking at some trends, grade seven, we can go back to this. The current grade seven students, and we can see back when they were in fifth grade and taking the math test. So fifth, fourth grade, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh grade. And what we see is this growing gap at the bottom where students are not catching up. And so we really need to address that.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Our top performers tend to be shrinking a little bit and our students falling behind seems to be increasing. So if we look at the eighth grade group as they

[15786-82] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: But they're being tested.
TEXT> But it's being tested in 11th grade. You're right. Yeah. And and throughout. And I think as we were chatting about earlier, the the science test itself has the information in the question. And it's a, it's, it tends to be a thinking okay type of question. So I don't think we're really putting our students at a disadvantage by not requiring the Earth science course.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Do you have access to release items that we could see? Yes, I would love to see what examples of.

[15786-207] Heather Whitney | Board Chair | 2024-06-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: that's that's a huge struggle. I mean, we're lucky we pretty much have it on the same campus. So it's opening new opportunities, but really breaking down those perceptions of what a tech center used to be compared to this is what it should be.
TEXT> One more thing. I know we're running out of time, but this was exciting too. There was a representative from River Valley Community College that was there, and they are so ready to embrace everything that we're I mean. Yes, they couldn't. Be more excited. Yes, they were to help us facilitate whatever we need to. We would like to facilitate their offering,  professors or offering space,  talking about being able to bus students from here to  River Valley Community College to take courses there. And in particular, this would be great for kids who do not thrive in a traditional high school environment. So it could open a lot of doors  that have really no cost to the district. It's just we have opportunities that are available that we we haven't been able to tap into,  for numerous reasons, scheduling or just having a vision of how it will look and what and what it will mean for our students.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So because I can tell you, I mean, from high school to now, the position of winning now River Valley Community College has been such a true and really trying

[15786-208] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: cost to the district. It's just we have opportunities that are available that we we haven't been able to tap into, for numerous reasons, scheduling or just having a vision of how it will look and what and what it will mean for our students.
TEXT> So because I can tell you, I mean, from high school to now, the position of winning now River Valley Community College has been such a true  and really trying to get the kids that experience, no matter where they lie, whether they're struggling or not.  You know, I've already had a, you know, quick conversation with, in with Jerry Apel and the gentleman who was there and stuff and guides to we want to start working at both ends. We want to find a way to, you know, maybe there's an opportunity to take the academy and move it over to the community college. So there's kids feel what you know to be successful, not successful, but give them that experience, because sometimes that's all they need is like, I can do it. And at the same time, providing an academy for the other end where students need to be challenged more. And so every step of the way that men willing to work with us, and I think that, you know, we should be lucky not as a school, but as a community, to have such true partners where we're going to be able to really reach that next level with all learners and giving them the opportunity at a college level class, no matter where they are. Because sometimes that's all they need is like like, you know, being in that professional environment, I.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Yes.

[15786-216] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So other business.
TEXT> I just want to, thank  Mr. Sprague for attending the the breakfast this morning.  It's always nice to, you know, show united front and having the kids see us, you know, all sitting around the table as as one team and we're able to talk to the kids. We're able to talk to each other. But it was much appreciated by, you know, school administration, myself and the students. Just to have us all kind of just sitting at the same table. So it was nice.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: You know, you're getting old when one of the administrators at the table with you as a former student.

[15814-20] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: insight into, you know, me coming on as you know, superintendent. So I want to thank him. I wish we were working together longer, but I wish him the best of luck and appreciate everything he's done for Sussex community. Thank you Ben. Thank you.
TEXT> And on behalf of the board, we we knew about this  resignation a while ago when we've kind of all been misty eyed about it before. And  so for the folks in the public that didn't see that, we want to acknowledge Mister Nestor's contribution.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. Good luck to you.

[15814-28] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: So I want to confine. So I'm protecting his identity.
TEXT> We're moving on to discussion and action items. The first  item on our agenda this evening will be  presented by Doctor Herzog. And before you start, on behalf of the board, we publicly acknowledge again, we wish you the best of luck.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Thank you. Appreciate that.

[15814-31] Alex Herzog | DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you for all that you've done for us.
TEXT> So on behalf of Andre, who's our chair of the Vision Committee. He asked me to read this before we get our Shri report. And I think we're Winkler's up there ready to go on that report part, so that's great. So,  good evening. Board members. And I'm reading this off what Andy said. Tonight, the vision committee for Claremont sugar River Valley Regional Career and Technical Center is pleased to present the findings of a comprehensive study conducted as the first phase of a longer term project intended to ensure the continued success and improvement of our CTE center. The study is the culmination of a project that started after the 2022 deliberative session, inspired by our community's aspirations for a CTE center and programs that are cornerstone of the educational experience here, providing important career direction and opportunities for its many current and future students. The process was meticulously carried out over the. With the assistance of the Southern Regional Education Board, SRB,  a leading authority in CTE educational excellence, and marks a foundational step towards advancing the quality of education and career readiness offered at our center.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: The purpose of this study was to critically assess our current programs, identify areas for growth, and provide inputs for a strategic plan that assures insurers alignment of our offerings

[15814-32] Alex Herzog | DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-06-20
PREV> Alex Herzog: future students. The process was meticulously carried out over the. With the assistance of the Southern Regional Education Board, SRB, a leading authority in CTE educational excellence, and marks a foundational step towards advancing the quality of education and career readiness offered at our center.
TEXT> The purpose of this study was to critically assess our current programs, identify areas for growth, and provide inputs for a strategic plan that assures insurers alignment of our offerings with the needs of our students, and with the current and future demands of our regional labor market. The scope of the study included analysis of student performance, labor market alignment, program quality, access, and equity and career advisement systems. Our intent is to see these recommendations fleshed out further and implemented beginning with the second phase, for which she has already been hired to help facilitate. We are confident that our community will achieve all that is recommended, recognizing that with the help of sRGB, our school board and the SAR leadership and implementation will occur thoughtfully, ensuring the priorities are balanced with resources. The recommendations presented tonight represent a foundational step in the work that comes next. We firmly believe in the importance of the center and its programing to the educational experiences in our community, and to the future of its many students currently enrolled and yet to come. You're invited to engage with these recommendations, support their implementation, and join us in our commitment to providing every student with the career pathway and tools they need to drive thrive.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Excuse me. Thank you to our and their guidance and expertise to our director, Alex Herzog. Vision Committee members, see you leadership, school board members and the Claremont community for

[15814-33] Alex Herzog | DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-06-20
PREV> Alex Herzog: and to the future of its many students currently enrolled and yet to come. You're invited to engage with these recommendations, support their implementation, and join us in our commitment to providing every student with the career pathway and tools they need to drive thrive.
TEXT> Excuse me. Thank you to our and their guidance and expertise to our director, Alex Herzog.  Vision Committee members, see you leadership, school board members and the Claremont community for supporting this process as we strive for excellence and brighter future for our students.  Sincerely, Andy, the chair of the River Regional Vision Committee. So thank you. And I'll leave it to Mr. Winkler. Doctor Winkler.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: Thank you. Alex, I appreciate that introduction. Give me just one second. I'll get my slide presentation.

[15814-37] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: be educators and decision makers to review data and promising practices. And we develop action plans and our coaches and our program directors in the Office of School Improvement help state education agencies, as well as school districts and local schools implement these action plans.
TEXT> And we currently provide professional learning and coaching services to schools and districts in 30 states across the nation. It was back in early 2023 when we were first contacted by Claremont CTE Vision Committee  about conducting a review of its technical center. And after several meetings, it was decided the best process would be to use sRGB career pathway review. We call it the CPR and the CPR process. It helps schools and districts and even regional consortia of secondary and post-secondary and industry partners determine whether their existing CTE programs align with opportunities for students to earn credentials and degrees, and launch careers in the high demand fields, and also meet Perkins five the federal CTV act. The requirements of it, which require that periodically all schools conduct a comprehensive local needs assessment, and it ensures that the current programs align with your regional labor market needs, and it provides the school and the district and opportunity to involve community partners in this continuous improvement process. So I'll briefly just give you a little overview of the process that was followed.  This began in the fall of 2023 with the review of data. We call this first a desktop audit. The data elements include enrollment in the CTE programs over the past three years. Looking at student achievement, both academic and technical achievement. And we  went available.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: We looked at student transition data. And then we held three virtual sessions with the CTE Vision Committee where the data was discussed. And we did a little deeper in

[15814-38] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: began in the fall of 2023 with the review of data. We call this first a desktop audit. The data elements include enrollment in the CTE programs over the past three years. Looking at student achievement, both academic and technical achievement. And we went available.
TEXT> We looked at student transition data. And then we held three virtual sessions with the CTE Vision Committee where the data was  discussed. And we did a little deeper in each component of the data. And on site visit was held March 28th and 29th.  Two members of the shrub Review team came to Claremont to observe the CTE classrooms at the Tech Center. We held interviews with district leaders and school leaders.  We held interviews with teachers, students and the high school counselor. Also, the team reviewed several artifacts such as course assessments,  syllabi, and teacher self-assessments. We use the Association for Career and Technical Education's High quality CTE program review. They have a self-assessment that was administered to the teachers, and we looked at that data. As I stated earlier, Perkins, five with the Federal Reserve Bank of Education Act. Does the local education agencies periodically conduct a comprehensive local needs assessment? And you see here on this  slide the needs assessment areas that are addressed. And we have aligned our career pathway review process to  meet these six areas under student performance. We're asking the question. How are students doing in their core academic courses and technical courses and their labor market alignment? The question is, do the CTE programs aligned with the in-demand and high speed jobs in the region?  As far as size, scope and quality, do the programs in the industry standards, and do they safely accommodate students interested in a particular career cluster?
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: When we talk about programs of study and the implementation of the programs study, is there a clearly defined sequence of both core academic and technical courses that will provide

[15814-41] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: of a health science, a rare cluster. And within this cluster are the pathways of health informatics, biotechnology research and development and therapeutic services. Followed by that are the programs of study specific to a data analyst, a bio medical engineer, and a registered nurse.
TEXT> When we talk about the program of study, we would talk about the  both core academic and the technical courses one would take on the path at the secondary level and the post-secondary level in order to be a registered nurse. So I just wanted to share that. So as I say those terms career cluster, career pathway, and part of the study, that you have an understanding of what I'm talking about. It's very important for students, parents, counselors and teachers to understand career clusters where pathways and programs of study to make informed decisions  about course selections, about industry credentials that will be offered, about work based learning and dual enrollment opportunities. Students need to see the end game, or they need a map and help them achieve it well. In a clearly defined program of study for the various career pathways, helps in making good choices and becoming completer of the CTE program. Also, it assists with making smooth transitions from the post-secondary education to the workplace. Thus, you'll find in the red section of the report that we provided an emphasis on programs of study and career advisement.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: So I want to draw your attention now to the. That was on the completion of the review on pages four through 15 of the report, you'll find data that

[15814-43] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: sunset existing programs. You'll find in the report several tables and charts that you'll want to dive into and review carefully. And we'll be happy if we need to come back at another time to go into each one of these data points with you.
TEXT> Really courage that this data is analyzed by the school leaders, by faculty, by the CTE Vision Committee and community partners. And then the following questions really should be asked. What does the data tell us? How will the district and community use the data? When in the future will the data be collected again and analyze? And what additional data elements are needed to make informed decisions about program offerings, about staffing, about the professional learning and development we need to provide to our instructors, about program quality and how we're going to continuously look to improve about student learning experiences, and also, how are people, our community in this? Because they really need to be at the table helping lead the discussions around the tech center. When we get beyond the data. And the next section is on page 16 of the report, we highlight some promising practices that we  had while we were there on site. And we really encourage the community and the leadership of the school district to build upon these promising practices. Through our interviews with focus groups, through district leadership, we found out that there is a high level of support for career and technical education.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: Many people, including the students that we talked to, appear to want the technical center to expand and succeed. And that's great because there is a lot of data out

[15814-44] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: site. And we really encourage the community and the leadership of the school district to build upon these promising practices. Through our interviews with focus groups, through district leadership, we found out that there is a high level of support for career and technical education.
TEXT> Many people, including the students that we talked to,  appear to want the technical center to expand and succeed. And that's great because there is a lot of data out there, a lot of research that is done, done that shows that students who are actively engaged in a CTE program are more likely to graduate than those who do not participate in CTE. They're also more likely to go on to some form of post-secondary education and training than those who do not concentrate in career and technical education, and they are more likely to be employed for years after graduating from high school than those who do not concentrate in career education. Your facility there in Claremont for its age, is in a very good condition and it has room to add additional CTE programs. Students in most of the classrooms that we observed were engaged during those observations, and the interviews that we held with students just confirmed dissipating in their CTE classes. Now, in the final section of the report, pages 17 through 25, we address five over arching recommendations. The first recommendation focuses on high quality programs of study. As I stated earlier, it's important for all students in the district to have access to information about course sequences that will help them achieve their career and life goals. I'm getting a lot of feedback. I apologize as I'm going through this. Check my body.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: But what courses are going to allow those students to achieve the credentials that are valued by your regional, business and industry, and what's going to help them transition smoothly

[15814-46] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: adding therapeutic services, as well as teaching and counseling. Also, additional data that's been shared with us after our audit and looking at newer labor market data shows the opportunity to look in the area of biomedical technology and its growth there in your region.
TEXT> Also, to see improvements in student achievement, students must be willing to put forth more efforts. And one strategy for helping students put forth effort is the integration of core academic skills and CTE programs. Career and technical education helps provide context for learning math, science, and English language arts. The integration of core academics and CTE can be enhanced by offering students the opportunity to gain real life experiences through workplace learning, dual enrollment and participation in career and technical student organizations such as schools USA, There's Future Business Leaders of America and Health Occupation Students Association, and one mechanism to address these recommendations is through input and assistance from the community. The CTE Vision Committee provides a means for addressing the recommendation and it's important to CTE Vision Committee. Continue to meet and guide the city programs, and you'll find that there are recommendations there for how to make that a permanent, focus and committee on May 30th, the CTE Vision Committee, along with three members of your school board, meant to unpack the findings and the recommendations in the report.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: It provided an opportunity for stakeholders to review these findings and to ask questions. We also facilitated a gallery walk, where teams of 3 or 4 discussed in detail one

[15814-62] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Our next item on our agenda is a presentation and a discussion related to a Stevens High School trip to Puerto Rico. From Doctor Michael to Harrington.
TEXT> Thank you. I just wanted to. I  am not being a person tonight. And I have the second apology, because at 630 tonight, I found out that my camera on my computer is no longer,  compatible with Chrome. So you're seeing. My name is bass.  The trip that, we're looking into is  a parent came up to me  and had expressed it. They had gone  on trips and Puerto Rico several years ago and  thought it was very, important for the students to have access to similar trips. And in conversation, we came to the conclusion that it is a fantastic, fantastic place to live and work. And I think if it's going to do all that, it would be an access to  an experience, different culture, and see how people working in places,  and I know that the trip that would come to you to go was a big success. And in  conversation with. In the district,  trying to put a trip like this for juniors and seniors every other year so  students that could go,  you know, in their high school career at Stevens had the opportunity  to at least once  have access to a trip like this. The  trip is put together through the same  company that they went on before, and I believe we even have  a substantial credit with them.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: And as part of this, we're looking at a five day trip and trying to limit it so it aligns with the people break minimize the time actually out of

[15814-70] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: So I believe you're asking me to be loaded into Spanish. Is that correct?
TEXT> Students that have completed Spanish two at least. Yeah. So I'm wondering what the criteria is. If it's open to all students, if we're limiting it to specific students in that are in Spanish, two are above. And what the funding mechanism. What what the anticipated funding mechanism was.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Oh sure. Yes. We're looking to get my colleagues. You're cutting in and out. So I'm trying to piece something together. So if it doesn't, I don't think you're not

[15814-90] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Policy subcommittee - CHAI | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Thank you. Are there any other questions or comments from the board before we proceed with a vote, miss Gillen, are.
TEXT> I wonder. What what. Will be the implications and possible challenges that we have to face if the fundraising goal is not met? For every student that hoped to attend the trip, for them to like, for them to overcome whatever financial burden they need to to overcome. I guess that's another question. More of a more concern. Yeah, yeah.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. patron.

[15814-93] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Policy subcommittee - CHAI | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: group, but so that was my understanding of how these have worked in the past, is that, you know, you're going to spend at least this amount we're going to fundraise through as a group. We're going to fundraise individually to bring your total down.
TEXT> Then as part of the I would, I would like to I do support this going forward. And I guess my comment is like to strongly urge the  adults who are organizing this and coming up with the fundraising scheme that we will proceed with to investigate fundraising schemes that are expected to yield the kind of results that would allow a student, any student, to attend, possibly even a student who may have like zero family contribution. Like if it's if it's selling something. I want a student to be able to sell $1,200 worth of something. And not that we pick a fundraising scheme where you can the max profit opportunities $800. Does that make sense? Like for us to do our research and make sure that the profit opportunity for the fundraising scheme aligned with the needs of the student to attend the trip?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Any other comments. Or questions? Mr. Pratt?

[15814-99] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: And not to speak to Doctor Harrington, but I'm sure he's he's on board with that as well.
TEXT> Yeah. So those were discussed as absolutely, absolutely discusses. You know, anyone going on a trip through high schools representing the high school? And once we have standing in behavior and increase and that would be well,  as far as, you know, making sure that raising is available to being able to find that, I will not with very little meetings and when I'm trips and ended up where I am today because of that,  I would in my genuine hope to offer that to our students as well.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Any other comments before we vote? All in favor? Doctor. Miss Kronborg, would you mind reading the motion?

[15814-110] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes.
TEXT> Okay. So again, and I think it's Mr. Pratt said it's the period schedule is really there's pros and cons to a period schedule and for the cons to a block. And the important thing is to be looking at our population now,  and the things that we're seeing. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to give you a very quick snapshot, which is  a lot of what Mr. Kosky is going to show you when you go over sass testing and just a couple of data points. Right? So when we,  when we look at, the current what  we are in our staff, science scores, you know, 62% of our students have to go in science scores this year. That's a very significant number. You know, and following on looking at SAT scores,  and the reading and writing, you had, 46.5%,  not yet approaching the standard and the math. You had any 1% not yet approaching, significant numbers that are showing the students aren't where we would like them to be.  They they can get there, but what? They're not good yet. And I think what's worse is that the Excel diagnostic, which is really needed for remediation. Mr. Pratt, when you came in and it was the students were and that they needed a tool for remediation in 94.9% of the students tested, which is about half of the student body.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So this does not represent the entire body. But what, you know, far greater level, which is a significant issue. So what we have is, for whatever reason, whether it's,

[15814-114] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: you have everyone actually in a class, which doesn't happen in block schedule at the time. Tiny class. And this is, this is the tough information is when we move to the digital path system. And we were we were able to pull that data.
TEXT> The average path time being made is 15 minutes. That's 15 minutes out of class for these kids.  And that tells me personally they can't sit in class for 78 minutes. I do walk through. I see a lot of students. Halfway through three quarters, through their block class, they  have their head down. They're trying to sneak you to, not on the phones anymore. But but they're finding ways to disengage. So the statistic that I gave in front of you are the passes for a semester two, which was 88 student days. You had, you know, a few students that had one pass during that, you know, the entire semester. Two.  You had one with 422, which is, I think, you know,  four passes on the four passes a day. Your your mean is 63 and your medians 47. And that means that in a way of median, being 47, you've got some kids in that high end which pushed that over.  So you've got a significant amount of kids  that are outside,  you know, that that are  in the classroom. Frankly, because they can't sustain. And it's not just and I know  some of the conversation is, you know, you're looking at your struggling students and you're looking at your high fliers.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Do you have some high fliers that do well in a block schedule? Yeah. Is it the majority of the school? No. The majority of the school, from what the

[15814-115] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: of kids that are outside, you know, that that are in the classroom. Frankly, because they can't sustain. And it's not just and I know some of the conversation is, you know, you're looking at your struggling students and you're looking at your high fliers.
TEXT> Do you have some high fliers that do well in a block schedule? Yeah. Is it the majority of the school? No.  The majority of the school, from what the data showing me in my observations, is that they have a very difficult time with block scheduling.  Also, when you do the math out. If you have 40% more time  in front of the teacher. And when you  are,  you know, below where you should be academically  is that time is invaluable. 14% of extra teacher time is incredibly important time. Some added positives that we have. Is that the  run, you know, students have been asked if they want  and there was a high rate of return. I believe 97% of the students, got what they wanted. If you try to get there, he can confirm that. I pulled that from my notes, but I believe that's, that's the number that we've talked about. I mean, it did well in what they wanted.  Also the negatively affected. You're running double block there. It will actually get a little bit of a increased teacher telling,  you know, I think moving to a period currently a block of 78 minutes and you're going to be moving to a.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Two period of 45 minutes ago. Get 90 minutes. They'll get 12 extra minutes. You know, which is, I think, rather important. And that's, that's mostly everything that I have

[15814-118] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - onset immediately after the chair | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any questions on the board? I saw Frank sand first, Mr. Sprague.
TEXT> Someone asked Charlie a question. So? So the 97. Percent. Is that 97% of the kids got. No.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's 99. It's the run that we have. 90. Which is. Which is just so it's.

[15814-121] Unidentified | DIARIZER CATCH-ALL CLUSTER - 55 mostly sub-second fragments ('Thank yo | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: So the folks at home.
TEXT> Yeah. Okay. Thank you. So the schedule that we built  the first run was 90%, which is I mean, we've scheduled anywhere from like 82 all the way up to 95. And as you know, just because you get 90 doesn't mean that that's a great schedule either, right? I mean, it all comes down to how many holes have to be filled in the kids schedule because normally they don't get everything that they want. So I can I can just jump in for.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So when I when I hear.

[15814-123] Unidentified | STEVENS HIGH SCHOOL / SRVRTC MASTER-SCHEDULE BUILDER - male, in the ro | 2024-06-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: So when I when I hear.
TEXT> That note, it tells me that 100% of the kids got 90% of what they wanted. Correct. It doesn't mean that 90% of the kids got everything they wanted. Correct? Correct. Right. So but I can, I can I can honestly tell you that building this schedule.  We did very, very, very well. I mean, I had  a lot of fears, and some of you have been on the board for years, and you might remember when we did the A, B, B schedule and that was the nightmare right there. It was a nightmare for a couple of years. I'm still seeing medical people. People, you know, when the kids sing a song about a graduation. That. Yeah. Yeah, I can, I can tell you, though, with a pretty good comment. I've been doing this, you know, building them for over 20 years that I'm very, very happy with the way the schedule came out. I think many would even talk to the fact that finding  substitute classes and alternate classes for students to go into for things that they might not have gotten, should be relatively easy and much easier than previous years under the block schedule. So I'm very, very confident about that. And it must have been in cars. Yeah. Abandoned cars on what we did.
NEXT> Unidentified: So we have a little bit more flexibility with the seven period day in the past. As you know, under the block period three was an extended block. So what

[15814-124] Unidentified | STEVENS HIGH SCHOOL / SRVRTC MASTER-SCHEDULE BUILDER - male, in the ro | 2024-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: go into for things that they might not have gotten, should be relatively easy and much easier than previous years under the block schedule. So I'm very, very confident about that. And it must have been in cars. Yeah. Abandoned cars on what we did.
TEXT> So we have a little bit more flexibility with the seven period day in the past. As you know, under the block period three was an extended block. So what we would do is we would run into the blocks and we would run music the first 45 minutes. Then we would have a 30 minute lunch for those students and then those students that also wanted to do, let's say, concert choir could do concert choir  with the other half of that period, or they could do a study hall and the same thing. If they did choir without them, they could do a study hall, in this case under the seventh period Day band in its own block. I believe it came up period one under the seventh period day and choir came out on its own, I think, period two, if I remember correctly.  Right. So that's.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's enough from having done millions of details.

[15814-126] Unidentified | STEVENS HIGH SCHOOL / SRVRTC MASTER-SCHEDULE BUILDER - male, in the ro | 2024-06-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's enough from having done millions of details.
TEXT> Yeah, yeah. So so, what I like about that, right, is under the blocks, band and choir were forced into block three because we knew that we wanted to split them and still have the flexibility to offer lunch at the same time without impacting the rest of the students day. With a seven period day having smaller classes, we can say schedule that. Where best needs to go doesn't have to be in the middle of the day. If we can go block one, put a block one. If it can go block, you know, block seven, put it in block seven. So what this did is it allowed greater flexibility.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: To me that was one of the biggest issues always has been because it would eliminate kids from coming up here at the third block. And any honors classes are

[15814-130] Unidentified | STEVENS HIGH SCHOOL / SRVRTC MASTER-SCHEDULE BUILDER - male, in the ro | 2024-06-20
PREV> Whitney Skillen: ago. Yeah. There might have been some conflict with tech classes because of the length of time it takes to do them. I don't even know. Yeah. And so I'm wondering, is there a way that this schedule accommodates that, like a double period? Okay.
TEXT> So every single tech center class. So under the old school, just so you can compare because I don't know the history of how much of you guys know. But under the blocks get period. Every class, whether it be Tech Center or Stevens High School academic or elective or Altria, the same, they were all one individual block, which meant for the 78 minutes. We know that if we go to a 45 minute block, it's not enough time to get the kids up here and then back. Like what would be the instructional time? On top of that, we also have to worry about our students that want to go to Newport, and that also are coming from Newport to our programs. Not going to come here for 15 minutes just to go back. So what we did is we double blocked every single tech center class. So if you're taking a tech center class, A level one class is an example. Let's say building construction one. You'll come to the tech center for periods one and two. There's your 90 minutes  now to get to your other  of do we have the flexibility? Yes.
NEXT> Unidentified: Because we kept advisory and we put that at the end of block two. So that again, for the students that are dealing with transportation to and from Newport on

[15814-131] Unidentified | STEVENS HIGH SCHOOL / SRVRTC MASTER-SCHEDULE BUILDER - male, in the ro | 2024-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: taking a tech center class, A level one class is an example. Let's say building construction one. You'll come to the tech center for periods one and two. There's your 90 minutes now to get to your other of do we have the flexibility? Yes.
TEXT> Because we kept advisory and we put that at the end of block two. So that again, for the students that are dealing with transportation to and from Newport on our end, we want to make sure that they can get back here in time for the start of block three and not miss out on any instructional time. That's going to be key, because if they come back late and the blocks are only 45 minutes, if you have an English class third block and it's, you know, so we purposely set up the schedule in a way to ensure that for the level one and the level two classes, which are the ones that are most impacted by Newport, that we still have basically the same time frame set in place so that those students are not negatively impacted due to transportation needs.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Awesome.

[15814-144] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: of teachers to come up to me, and when I read a communication committee, I'm there all summer. And I think those things out and be available to any parent that wants to talk and go over things. And I'm back August 14th. So families.
TEXT> You're working with the families. As well. It does sound like the kids were exposed to this, and the families were introduced because you were running the.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Schedule, right? Yes, like a mock one. And so the kids understand what this one looks like.

[15814-145] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: You're working with the families. As well. It does sound like the kids were exposed to this, and the families were introduced because you were running the.
TEXT> Schedule, right? Yes, like a mock one. And so the kids understand what this one looks like.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just have two quick questions. What's the impact on class sizes and teacher load?

[15814-152] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Pratt.
TEXT> And I'd like to add is that when you talk about students who want to continue to, to, you know, challenge themselves and get more, it's now that we're moving more,  we have we've doubled the amount of classes we have for dual enrollment through the community college. So it's not like before. It's like they take their history class and then they want to take AP history. They have to take two separate classes. Now that one class can facilitate both, they can get the the dual credit and college credit  and also their high school credit for that. So at one point, you know, students would technically could be missing because. Oh my AP classes at the same time as this. So I'm going to miss out. Now we've combined them. So they're in a class. They can get their dual credit as well as their history credit.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Did you have any comments to make about the teachers reception to this and the collective bargaining update?

[15814-155] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School (remote) - THE SAME VOICE the diarizer  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: several times and Doctor Harrington has done the same way and Doctor Harrington tell me if I'm wrong, but there was an overwhelming support from the from the faculty that they prefer a period schedule over the block under the current circumstances. Is that correct?
TEXT> Yeah. I put out a survey, ask and really just ask. Two things is number one, how ready are you? And number two, you know, do you think this is, you know, better for the student? You know, they, the surveys definitely said that they thought better students more than they were ready for it, but again, it often said they were ready for it. You know, there's some trepidation. It is a it's a change for them. From the conversation with the majority of the staff is that,  you know, there's a couple of things that we need to be able to do well, make it work. And really, it comes down to, facing guys, which they've worked on, on for the majority of the year. Making sure that they're ready for it and then also moving into procedurals for your  higher classrooms. Right. You know, with the 45 minutes, you got a minute? And how do we milk it for every minute that we have? And that's the beginning of the PBS all around that at the high school right now. So that would be our absolutely ready to move into it and  start learning.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there any further discussion from the board before we vote? Seeing none. Would, you know, would you please read the motion again?

[15814-160] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - the chair announces at | 2024-06-20
PREV> Bonnie Miles: Okay.
TEXT> Excuse me. Okay. So. I we put out a survey to staff, teachers and students for both surveys. Received a around 50% return, which which is great. So 225 students and 32 out of 57 faculty. And then you have the results in front of you for the questions we were able to quantify. But basically the surveys were the same. Has the, for the teachers has affected student learning? Can you give examples? Was it how easy or difficult is it to to  comply with it  and suggestions or  comments for the students? I had an additional question of how often do you bring your phone to school? And they're still bringing their phone every day. You look at the data, it's really not kept kids from bringing their phones to school. They had a very different opinion than the teachers.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: What a surprise.

[15814-163] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - the chair announces at | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> Right. So the, the really interesting thing in this first question, the impact on student learning, there were two choices that it's somewhat worse or made it much worse. And there was no response from teachers on both of those categories. So pretty strong response from staff. And then in terms of compliance. How difficult is it. Nobody said very difficult. And a small percentage said somewhat difficult. Most said it was very easy. And if you can take a look at the comments, I just tried to pick some some positives and negatives, but generally they're appreciative of the clarity of the rules and, the lack of the need for discussion and an argument in class about why the phone should be away instead of out and being used. Students, on the other hand, still bring their phone all the time, but, most found it. Hasn't had an impact or it was a somewhat negative impact.  Some about a quarter said it's much worse.  But when you when I dig a little deeper into that much worse and we look at the comments about and the, the, the comments are classified as somewhat better, much better, somewhat worse.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And the much worse comments are, from an adult perspective, not so severe, I would say. So one was, without having phones in school, we won't be able to capture

[15814-167] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: to understand the way it's, you know, works at the high schools is going to look different at the middle school, middle school, you know, they might say needs to be in the pouch. We need to see it and it needs to be off.
TEXT> You know, you might have to go back to at the beginning of the year to to do the same thing when we first rolled it out to high school. But, you know, we've seen huge results from that, from the academics to relationship building. And but I mean, it's the kids want to do it. No. But I can say is the former principal is that they stepped up and they did it. You're always going to have a few who, who, who didn't, but they got it soon enough. And kids are always going to find ways to make to it. But  overall it was very proud and impressed with the faculty, the staff and the students in regards to, you know, they didn't like it, but they did it. And I think that's that's the bigger thing there. And they were honest in their their feedback in the, in the results. But I think the, the, the pros outweigh the cons when you have something like this. And how much of an impact it can make negatively on a school climate, just being able to have them at all times.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: One quick comment. So maybe we should start and looking at the student comments, start teaching kids how to read analog clocks in kindergarten.

[15814-178] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Mike Koski: Excuse me. I. I only received one complaint from a parent. Excellent. Since the beginning of this and and that was just very initially when it when it was begun. I don't know if you have.
TEXT> Yeah. I, I received I think two and we were able to resolve the situation through my kid is not bringing his phone to school, so therefore he doesn't need the pouch as they will have the pouch. And instead of  showing that  you know his post, he can. We just gave him a card and that was the parent had to sign off saying, I know my son or daughter is not bringing their their phone to school and so is the card. So we're able to resolve that. But, yeah, I was like I said, I was we were very surprised, but very, happy with the way, you know, students stepped up to the plate. Parents seemed to be very supportive of it. You know, for situations they,  they can come down the office, have their phone unlocked and used it. So we try to make these accommodations along the way where we were listening to the parents, we were listening to the students.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So and I think that, you said was absolutely true, that they, that there are some students who will find ways. But, overall, it's been a success.

[15814-181] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (returned to the board as a write-in in  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Peterson.
TEXT> I like the no foreign policy and I understand the use of the pouches, and I think I would like to see at some point, and I know it's probably a large undertaking. As we talk about how we have to educate kids more and more on things that appear to be outside of the school, you know, the school responsibility is teaching the kids some self-control of not using their phones right now. They're not using their phones because they can't. So once they hit the real world and they're at their job, and I see people at my work walking that, you know, walking around with their cell phone out all the time. I think when we talk about the role the school takes in teaching kids, we also need to look at some point of teaching, you know, kids restraint. My phone's gone off five times from my pocket tonight.  I, I didn't check my phone because not because it's not in the pouch, but because I'm at a meeting and I'm here at the meeting. So I think, you know, moving forward, at some point, we really need to look at,  holding the kids accountable for not using their phones. Having and I know it's a big undertaking, but having teachers enforce a universal rule of no cell phones,  and somehow taking that step to doing that without pouches.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. I mean, you bring up a good point, and it's something that we spoke about right from the beginning. We spoke as a faculty, and we said at some

[15814-186] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Bonnie Miles: should have shut the thing off and look how much money this is. Closter. And I think people don't realize that this can go with you for a long time. Yeah. It's like tonight I just shut it off completely. I don't even want to.
TEXT> The reason we initially started looking at this with all  the school safety that was going on, that goes on the world in regards to you know, you know we initially looked at a lot most of the  when they were intruders in schools majority. The time they found out they knew where to find where people were based on the cell phones going off and the pinging and stuff. That's what kind of initiated this was looking at from a school safety standpoint, you know. But I think, you know, it's so we took we took care of that. But also we got more out of it. You walk into a cafeteria cafeteria. Now kids are talking. It's great. You know, you're in the hallways. They're talking. They're they're not, face down and and texting and stuff. So, I like I said, but I was very proud of the students and the faculty and staff the way that.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: You know, it was one time my husband and I went to a couple of years ago, and it was two parents with three teenagers, and I think one of

[15814-187] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; outgoing CHAIR of the Capital Improveme | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: Now kids are talking. It's great. You know, you're in the hallways. They're talking. They're they're not, face down and and texting and stuff. So, I like I said, but I was very proud of the students and the faculty and staff the way that.
TEXT> You know, it was  one time my husband and I went to a couple of years ago, and it was two parents with three teenagers, and I think one of them was already in adult, and they were taking the kids out.  And after they placed their order, everybody, all the kids took their their phones out and they were doing whatever. And mom and dad was just sitting there like this, and I still can't get it out of my head all these years. It's still. Resonates with me how  how it's hurting them.
NEXT> Mike Koski: I just to the point about bringing them back. Many of us had the benefit of growing up without cell phones, and our brains develop pathways and learn to handle

[15814-188] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - the chair announces at | 2024-06-20
PREV> Bonnie Miles: the kids took their their phones out and they were doing whatever. And mom and dad was just sitting there like this, and I still can't get it out of my head all these years. It's still. Resonates with me how how it's hurting them.
TEXT> I just to the point about bringing them back. Many of us had the benefit of growing up without cell phones, and our brains develop pathways and learn to handle those situations. A lot of these kids haven't, and so they need to learn a new pathway through their brain. Just like if you had to learn how to brush your teeth left handed. If you haven't ever tried it, try it sometime. It's very difficult. But it takes time and you have to practice  over and over and over again, like learning to do anything until you develop a quick pathway through your brain and you learn how to manage the ringing or the beeping or those kinds of things. So I think we can get there, but it's going to it's going to take a little longer than.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's definitely a phase two. Yes. That's it.

[15814-195] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: detrimental effects on mental health and adolescence and kids, babies going like this with their finger with in the air and there's nothing. There that's terrifying. That's the that's the pathway that they burned. Number five is financial update. Miss Mary Henry, our business administrator.
TEXT> Okay, quickly. As of May. 31st. You had. 870. Thousand and $35 in surplus. That doesn't. Include. Any additional surplus that you would have had in your, in your revenues yet. Haven't got that totally tallied. But I know I talked to you guys that you've had gotten some extra money in there,  so that would be higher. Since then, since everything's been run, it's come down a little bit. But I also know I have one point, I think 3 million right now that's still encumbered for out of district placement, which I'm going through those purchase orders with Ben and Jen to  figure out just how much is going to come off of those. Because I think there is some money there that's going to come back to the bottom line. And even if I just said 200,000, that's still  a considerable amount of it. Just based on a few I did today based on the kids that are out, you know, multiplying it by two more bills, which it wouldn't be a full two bills for June. But. That's what I used. I'm getting close to that number. So, I'm confident that we're going to probably have close to a million by the time everything is said and done. That will be on our bottom line. But again, it we're not done yet, but all the payrolls are done, so that's good. So everything's encumbered is released now.
NEXT> Mary Henry: So that's all finished. So the only other things out here is I have 1.84 million that's encumbered roughly in the budget right now. And now it's time to whittle

[15814-288] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board - five short fragments interleaved  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Mike Koski: Fourth grade. Some areas of red. Some areas of green. Areas where they're excelling. Areas of weakness. And now we can look at these by classroom and begin to address each of these writing strands or these writing, focus areas to target them for improvement.
TEXT> So one of the I just want to point out my own experience with this. We we looked at writing at the high school.  We found that we had Mike Landau, who was an English teacher there at the time, took the lead on this,  and he analyzed  a number of writing samples from our kids. And we found that there could be exceptional  examples of writing. Yes, there were only three paragraphs long and not so great examples of writing that were four paragraphs. They got a substantially higher score. Right. So we are we looking at the actual.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: There's a.

[15814-303] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board - five short fragments interleaved  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Mike Koski: Yes. Yeah. We have identified that issue and have it fixed.
TEXT> Remember literally hurting kids writing kids down to make sure. So kneecap.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It is my understanding, though, that if a child doesn't take it at a certain level, it's recorded as a zero. Yes against us.

[15947-7] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: as written. We'll now open the floor to non-agenda items for citizen comments per policy DEDH. Is there anyone present motion to speak this evening? The citizens comments. Seeing none, we're going to move on to our first order of business, which is superintendents report.
TEXT> Good evening everybody. It's good to see everybody again. I'm just going to give you a brief overview of the superintendents report that I sent you. In regards to this, a lot of some data in there. Yeah. Education, but also for so we welcome everyone to new School year just to know that our focus,  this year is on a handsome instruction, practices and building strong family relationships. This year we are dedicated to in our kind of motto. This year is meeting minds and shaping lives, one student at a time. We encourage open communication and consistent attendance to support, you know, our students. And we talk to that a little bit about in my letter that went out to families is, some of that was discussing the importance of being involved with the schools and attendance, because that's going to issue over the years. So we're really trying to to work on that, with the community. So some of the key highlights from the superintendents report.  One is academic achievement.  As you know, we're still seeing the aftermath from the, the pandemic and the challenges and students performance in math and Ela is improving thanks to targeted inventions in the summer program.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And technology continues to play a crucial role in supporting personalized learning. Professional development. Our educators have undergone extensive training, including introduction to MeeGo. It's an AI frameworks that we'll

[15947-8] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: some of the key highlights from the superintendents report. One is academic achievement. As you know, we're still seeing the aftermath from the, the pandemic and the challenges and students performance in math and Ela is improving thanks to targeted inventions in the summer program.
TEXT> And technology continues to play a crucial role in supporting personalized learning. Professional development. Our educators have undergone extensive training, including introduction to MeeGo. It's an AI frameworks that we'll be using this year for grades five through 12, and community engagement. We want to continue to strengthen our relationships with families, and that remains a priority for us. Just talking about to get families more involved in the schools, in the child's education. Some of the focus areas that we're we're looking at this year is instructional excellence. We are committed to providing exceptional education through refined instructional practices. And that's really we right away, even when we got into, started with the new teacher orientation the other day. And then,  the meetings that we had today were really focus focusing on, instructional excellence in actually what good instructional practices are and how can we do introduce new instructional practices in the classroom to make teachers better at what they're doing to support the students in the wide range of learners, as you'll see in the report, you know, five or fours are going up there, going up across the nation. And, you know, in that report, I did a, ten year study, really?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: 504 is just to remind us is.

[15947-57] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member - the chair calls on her by name in the  | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Right, right.
TEXT> And for those students who don't succeed with the accommodations then a formal evaluation process might be initiated.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yes.

[15947-81] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Policy subcommittee. CHAIR | 2024-08-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: really looking at instructional practices. We have so many different types of learnings. We have to do a better job of meeting them where they are, and not just assuming that they have to adjust to the teacher. We should be adjusting to them, right?
TEXT> Are there services in the community like through TLC or Turning Points Network? I know they do a lot of other things, but I have learned that their portfolio of services a lot more robust than I previously knew. So I'm wondering if there are services to help families with, to help families help their children manage their symptoms. Really. That's really what it is like manage their symptoms when it comes to stuff like that. Because I get the whole classroom management thing and helping students succeed in all of that. But,  there are for, for certain like conditions, there are like ways that you can learn how to manage it. And I'm wondering if these kids are getting the support and the help to be like, hey, when you're feeling a little distracted, you might be able to put your energy into this little thing and get back to your goal. Does that make sense?
NEXT> Mike Koski: So one of the it's not the elementary school, but we've targeted the middle school this year for that training where we're we've had a team of teachers from the

[15947-93] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (returned to the board as a write-in in  | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> Thank you. Thanks. Very. Oh,  off of Frank and,  Whitney, what they were saying, I grabbed to hear my ears perked up when I hear, you know, students on a 504 plan to be able to go take a walk.  That to me, sounds like it could be something that's catchy that I hear. That body is going to plan to go take a walk, so I need a plan to go check the lock. So hopefully. Right. So. So I hope we are doing these sorts of training, some coping skills, not just giving the kids crutches for the rest of their life. We need to be training these kids on coping skills and how they got, because if head is working at her job, she can't go take a walk in the middle of a surgery. You know Frank well. Frank retired. You can go take a while. I can't, you know. So teaching these kids these types of coping skills and how do I within themselves, I think is going to be very beneficial, one for the rest of their lives rather than just give them crutches? Yeah.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's it's it's more about teaching them how to manage it. Yeah. For long term and not just accommodate it.

[15947-99] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Whitney Skillen: and in your workspace. Like the work, the work, the professional work environment is definitely moving in the direction of being more accommodating to the needs for the success of a team, for the success of the goal, for the success of the profit right.
TEXT> And everything we're doing. It's like if we're trying to really teach the kid the soft skills they need to be successful. For some of them, this is a major part of that. And so it's but you're right, you know, we have seen it. Oh, you know, I need to go to the bathroom. Some of these kids, they'll try to take advantage of it, but they're reeled back in. And Lisa at the high school and the teachers say, look here you're abusing, you know, yes, you have to. And if it gets to a point and say, they always say, I think it's time to go to the nurse. And because it's because of that, it teaches a very good. It's just you feel that, you know, the work that Michael did with the the team we had that we need to train a bunch of teachers and have them train their peers. So we're all on the same page in regards to post high school life.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Arlene, just.

[15947-112] Tina McCusker | SPECIAL EDUCATOR AND CASE MANAGER, Bluff Elementary School - presentin | 2024-08-21
PREV> Tina McCusker: also their social emotional well-being, to give them motivation, self-esteem, coping skills for the things that are going on in their lives. The program emphasizes developing competence and confidence. Many things that our young women need connection, character, motivation, ways to contribute and give back.
TEXT> It was founded in 1996 by Molly Baker.  So why did I ask to do this? Well, bluff, as you probably know, is a very poor school support in the district. We have 45% of our students who live at or below the poverty level.  Many of the kids on my caseload, I had a very large caseload last year. And I won't share the numbers because you'd probably be very upset.  But come from shelters. So literally they come out of a shelter they might not be in from yesterday at noon, and they're coming to school to eat breakfast with us. So they're very there. Poor, 33% are on an IEP. So the special educator is the great folks that are in this room, all of you. You're part of that team of bringing those kids up,  and teaching them how to give back when you are poor, many things are given to you.  You don't learn how to give back. You'll often come to school with no dreams. If you don't know where your head's going to land, you don't know where your next meal is going to come from.
NEXT> Tina McCusker: How will you hope to become a doctor one day? So this is just a little tiny piece that we can use to give these girls some sort of motivation.

[15947-117] Tina McCusker | SPECIAL EDUCATOR AND CASE MANAGER, Bluff Elementary School - presentin | 2024-08-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: Just like I, I, I am familiar with this program. Lots of relatives who are in programs in other districts, and it's an amazing program. And I know in the state of New Hampshire, it's a wonderful program.
TEXT> It is very well run. It does come with a curriculum.  So there is a lesson. And,  I had spoken with our guidance counselor who's now taken on another role, but she had planned to do that curriculum during a lunch bunch. So most likely I will tap some other teachers on the shoulder to help me do the lunch bunch and do that curriculum piece during that time. The after school piece is two afternoons a week for up to 45 minutes,  so they're physically active for 90 minutes a week. And that's another thing. When you're on a carb rich diet, you are either really skinny or really plump. So, you know, these kids need different avenues where they can say, look, to be healthy, I need to do x, y, z to when I'm angry because I live in a shelter and I have head lice, and I'm coming to school and I have any instance, noon yesterday. I can develop coping skills by running, by becoming physically active. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes. Candy.

[15947-133] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (returned to the board as a write-in in  | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Arlene. Seconds. Motion. Mike, do you have a question?
TEXT> Just question. Maybe more for administration about the student program at another school. You know, bluff is one of three many schools in the district. And I'm not against, you know, 1500. But if it's bluff, you know, these numbers can start piling up. So just wondering, is there anything else in plan for other schools, which would be nice?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I haven't been approached by any other schools, but I'm sure if it's successful. Me, I mean, I would see that probably Maple.

[15947-243] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: Oh, the full time director.
TEXT> They're both they're both full time. And you know, our person will predominantly be here to go over there to learn programs and the setting there so we can come up with a future plan to continue to build both programs and create the pathways needed for all of our students.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So they have an assistant. Excuse me. I'm sorry. Go ahead.

[15947-472] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes.
TEXT> I just want to apologize. It really wasn't my intention to cause the lost that ensued. It was just that I needed to make a good decision. With school a week away, in the guise of what I thought was going to be best for the students. It was never my intention to you that you are you on or anything like that. So I just wanted to say I apologize for for any of this. I just wanted to.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: You are not. You were put in a tough spot and your intention was to have that voted on and not having to see it. That's not your fault. And

[15994-21] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITIONS straight into  | 2024-09-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: one, am happy to see us approve of it. I think we should. And, but I guess all the I'm hoping that the questions and conflicts that had arisen over the past couple of years that had prevented us from adopting it have been resolved.
TEXT> Yeah, I went through it. I mean, being new around the table, there's nothing it just good practice. Yeah, it's nothing in there that, you know, should limit on what we do. Right? It's just it forces us to, you know, it doesn't force us, but we should be working more collaboratively together with some of P and Newport anyways, because it's about the kids. I don't see anything in here that limits us to do that. I think we just have to have a keep that open line of communication. Because you have Newport, they're going through a lot, you know, a building project, and they're trying to improve their programs. We're going to continue to improve out here. It's not about competing. It's about how we can,  collaborate with each other to, you know, offer students what they need.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And I see that, you know, again, that we have to have at least one joint meeting a year. And I think it's important to get that on the calendar.

[15994-40] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2024-09-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Don't we bring their kids back?
TEXT> If we bring their kids back, we're picking up our kids, aren't we? I'd have to look at the route.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. The way the route is, it's like it's, circular. If they're coming here, we're sending someone there so we never have to make a run specifically just to bring

[15994-141] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2 | 2024-09-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Crawford.
TEXT> I, I think that having Michelle be the career counselor is is good because I think she does have the background. My concern is having her be the career counselor and the assistant. All wrapped up into one job.  I think that career counselor, it's it is  working with the students and and doing,  career counseling. Obviously, it's also working with the businesses in the community and making sure there are  alliances between the tech center and the business community to make sure that that's a strong relationship, that we are training our students for those jobs that are out there that that they need staff for. And, and our students need jobs. So that's a strong relationship. And I think I think Michelle, from her background, I think she could do it.  It's the administrative piece that is of concern. The second thing is, I did think that there was a to having Eric involved because, he has done a good job growing the program in Newport, and he has he has lots of contacts and he has familiarity with the building, you know, getting a building plan over there, which we're going to be doing here. So I think there's benefit to having him involved and being the director of of two campuses. However, I understand that that that can only work if he has a full time assistant over in Newport and one here.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: He doesn't have it. Right. This is the whole option.

[15994-144] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITIONS straight into  | 2024-09-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: it is too much. And, but I feel okay with it because I think if we go with you sort of being in the background or being the assistant that she's going to do a lot of those functions anyway with considering her background is.
TEXT> So. Yeah, I mean, you're right. I mean, as you know, it's kind of like a, as a, as a superintendent here, you know, in this district, I find that I work very closely with all the principals anyways. And I think, you know, I have the benefit of knowing Michelle for eight years and her capabilities and knowing all the stuff she's already done already. She's already met. I think with most of the kids one on one, she's already had field trips out into the community and stuff. So she's doing both right now. I think it's just a matter of having someone else, you know, behind the curtains, working on the, you know, the, the bigger stuff. So deadlines. So, you know, right. Keep an eye on those things there. And having the main point of contact, you know, be, you know, someone in the district on record as the director. So we're getting those those communications and stuff. I mean whether, you know, we decide to whatever we decide whether I'm going to be just as involved with or without the title, over here, because that's just part of my job is superintendent is being involved and helping make decisions, and whether it's grant spending, whether it's hiring, whether it's  policy and stuff, it's kind of a you're doing it anyways.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And with Michelle, like I said, I'm lucky. I've known her for for many years and I've, I've given her a lot of things over the years when I was

[16011-24] Arlene Hawkins | CHAIR, SAU 6 Joint Board (re-elected 4/11/2024) and chair of the SAU 6 | 2024-09-12
PREV> Unidentified: Seeing your meeting.
TEXT> We're certainly seeing how you're moving this district forward. And we're looking forward to continuing to growth under your leadership. And we're working on a strategic plan, receiving student achievement data boards and detailed reports about RCU. So we thank you for all.
NEXT> Unidentified: Of that. Thank you.

[16011-295] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (appointment formally announced at th | 2024-09-12
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Mr. Pratt.
TEXT> You know, for me, superintendent, doesn't matter if you're Unity or Claremont, you know, we're going to support both schools. I think in any case, whether it's a unity exploratory committee or a Claremont exploratory committee, that's all they are, is exploratory committee. And I think there's too many moving parts right now. I think for any side to say, this is how we're going to do business moving forward. From my standpoint in my office, we're going to continue to to move forward and provide what's needed, whether you're Claremont or Unity, because that's what the kids need. But I think at this point, just have everyone just settle down. I can see where miscommunication may have happened, but I just want to say it's both sides have exploratory committees and that's all they can be. And nothing should be drawn on the sand or written in the sand or  a  line drawn. We don't know what the future is going to hold for Unity or Claremont. But you know, from our standpoint right now, from my office perspective, not speaking on behalf of the board is that for us, it doesn't matter. Right now, Unity and Claremont, no one.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And that's the direction we're going to move as a superintendents office. But I think each side has a right to do their committees. And each side can disagree and

[16011-297] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (appointment formally announced at th | 2024-09-12
PREV> Chris Pratt: could never expect it in this collateral damage there. But it's not intentional on any pot. There are things sometimes that, we miss beginning, but there's also things we missed for Claremont. But none of it's in intentional. We're trying to rebuild a school district.
TEXT> So I think it's we're all caught in this, in this  arena of trying to make decisions and trying to figure things out before we even know certainties. And we've got a lot of messes to clean up. And I think right now I know I'm frustrated with a lot of stuff we have to clean up, but I don't want to throw have anyone throw the towel in because I think when things are going right, I've seen in a short time we work well together and it's just a matter of talking it through. So, you know, I'm pushing forward in regards to whatever, you know, we need for the kids and support staff and everything. You know, I think we're all looking at that no matter what exploratory committee you're on. So thank you for letting me speak.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And I just do want to say that the discussion around this really was, is utter transparency. So there was an option that that Claremont was completely opposed to, which

[16011-346] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (appointment formally announced at th | 2024-09-12
PREV> Chris Pratt: how well they work together. We do have our bumps in the road. We have our bumps in the road, but for the most part, and we have these difficult discussions all the time, whether it's principals, the superintendent or an office to superintendent. But.
TEXT> Too often, I mean, we go through these bumps all the time, and it's just a matter of working through it and say, we're going to do what's best for the kids. And sometimes it goes south like this. But I don't think it's ever an intentional, I mean, with you guys a short time, but I know when things are going right was spot on. But I think when things are going wrong, we get to still stay focused on,  you know, what's best for the kids no matter you know what the numbers show, it don't show. We're doing this for the kids and that's what's going to lead our discussion. I'm not saying it's not, but I'm saying making these decisions like you guys are making, having these conversation happens in my day like five times a day. And it's just trying to only way to put it in perspective. The saying it's about the kids, what are we going to do for the kids? We might not agree with each other, but if we're doing what's best for the kids, then I think it kills us in regards to as adults. So, you know, I, I appreciate the conversation.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: They are difficult conversations and it's unfortunate sometimes we have to have them, but not having having them and even do more damage by not doing that. And I appreciate,

[16021-5] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (Stevens High School principal through 1/11/2024 | 2024-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: none, we will, take a vote on. Approving those. All those in favor, I, I posed. No. We're fine. Okay. Citizens. Comments. I don't see any citizens, so we'll close citizens comments. Student representatives. So we'll go to the superintendent's report. Great. Good evening everyone.
TEXT> So this month's superintendent report provides a comprehensive overview of the district's current initiatives, achievements, and ongoing challenges across schools and departments within six. The report highlights the district's commitment to improving student outcomes through strategic initiatives that focus on academic achievement, technology integration, community engagement, and resource allocation. Special attention is given to addressing the diverse needs of students, including those requiring special education services and English language learners. Efforts to strengthen instructional practices through professional development and curriculum alignment are also emphasized, demonstrating the district's focus to maintain high educational standards. Additionally, the report covers key operational improvements such as facilities maintenance, technology upgrades, transportation efficiencies, and reflecting the district's dedication to providing a safe and conducive learning environment. The report also underlines the importance of community involvement and parent engagement, and enhances student success, as seen through increased efforts to involve parents in decision making process.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions for the superintendent.

[16021-71] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, SAU 6 (started early July 2023). The chair han | 2024-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: up as far as, actually through the New Hampshire Department of Revenue Administration sets our deadlines that we have to meet. And so it has to be a an intentional process to get through it all. Okay. Moving on. Finance report. You're on, Mrs. Henry.
TEXT> Okay. Okay. Rough estimate of the district fund balance. I'm going to make this brief because I know the finance committee is going to talk a little bit, too. But as of right now, the report I sent you had $544,145.29 in surplus. There has been a change to this report, and the change has been the encumbrance has gone down to 65,000. And that's because of the roof POA being rolled into the new year and paid for the roofs. That was the big part of that. $648,000 was the roofs. So now it's down to 65,000. I need to go through those POS and see what is still relevant and what isn't. I've done some of them, just not all of them. Again, this can move a little bit, but not a lot. But I would expect at your next meeting that we need to vote on a number on how much we might want to retain.  Going into in this year so that I can put that on our Doe 25 or the miss 25 for the tax rate settings. The other thing I wanted to let you know is we do have a revenue.  Revenue. Well, I don't call it a surplus, but we received more revenue this year, roughly 205,000. That came from a special ed line that for anybody at 22, because they increase from 21 to 22, that we had to take care of the students till that age.
NEXT> Mary Henry: And anybody that had that there's only 15 schools got additional monies. So we were one of those that got 210,000. And again, this revenue number could change when I

[16021-157] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, PRESIDING in the absence of Chair  | 2024-09-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> But we also learned that, the bulk of the. Absenteeism is about it's not 100% of our kids. It's about 30% of our kids.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It's the same kids.

[16021-190] Candace Crawford | BOARD MEMBER (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2024); Finance Sub | 2024-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Oh, okay.
TEXT> Okay.  So I am absolutely delighted to report that the,  visioning committee of Bonnie Miles and Mike patron and I met yesterday with the new, director, actor director at the tech center,  Michelle Harrington. And she's been on the job for 17 days, and I. I think I speak for all three of us. We were blown out of the water with the amount of work that she has done and  what she has organized and created. Having been a thorn in the side of the administration for three years regarding the tech center. I am absolutely delighted to see this, this,  progress.  One of the things she shared with us was that in the 17 days, which they were weekend days in there, just to remind you,  that she has interviewed 150 students that are 150 students at the Tech Center, plus 13 or 15 I can't remember, from Newport. And she's interviewed them all. She's taken pictures and she has a bio of each kid, and she has created a video showing what the kid. I'm sure. I'm sorry. That isn't very professional, but you know what I mean. The kid, the students. Thank you. The student,  what the student is, is taking for,  at the tech center.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And, what their, pre recs were, if you will. What courses did they take in preparation for enrolling in the tech center programs? And this video is on a loop

[16021-191] Candace Crawford | BOARD MEMBER (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2024); Finance Sub | 2024-09-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: each kid, and she has created a video showing what the kid. I'm sure. I'm sorry. That isn't very professional, but you know what I mean. The kid, the students. Thank you. The student, what the student is, is taking for, at the tech center.
TEXT> And,  what their,  pre recs were, if you will. What courses did they take in preparation for enrolling in the tech center programs? And this video is on a loop that is airing in the lobby of the Tech Center as well as the library at Stevens High School. And so all the students at Stevens High School can say, hey, I know Joe. Oh, this is what he did, how he is at the tech center and what he has done that was for me, that was a really big accomplishment. The second thing,  she had a whole series of dates of,  engagements with the general public  to have them at the tech center.  She is  in has the expectations that each  area of of interest will have its advisory committee. The and all the advisory committees are going to be meeting as a group in October to work together to see each other and what they're doing and what they're expected.  The, the students. That's already been a field trip,  for, for the  some of the students at to the,  ambulance.  And there are other field trips scheduled, for example,  the culinary arts are going to Will orchards to see the apple picking, apple processing, apple pie making cider making that whole thing. I, for one, a big advocate of field trips. So I was delighted to see that,
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Student of the month.

[16046-7] Dale Girard | MAYOR OF CLAREMONT - speaks first for the City Council ('We would like | 2024-09-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: tech center. There's been a lot of activity. Just a few words, because we know this is critical to the economic development of Claremont. And so we think it's important for the council to know kind of what's going on to you. Mr.. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. We would like to thank the  school board for hosting this, for hosting the Claremont City Council this evening. It's a pleasure to be together. For what marks the first joint meeting between our two bodies in several years. This evening, we're not just coming together as elected officials, but as partners in building a stronger community. Over the past few months, city management  and Superintendent Pratt and department leaders have dedicated time and effort to identify areas where the city and schools can collaborate more closely. Their leadership and shared vision have laid the groundwork for partnership that benefits every resident of Claremont. Tonight, we look forward to hearing how these initial conversations can translate into concrete steps that make the best use of our resources, improve services, and enhance overall quality of life for our community. By working together, we can address shared challenges, create new opportunities, and ultimately set a higher standard for what collaboration looks like between our city and our schools. This is a great opportunity to build a stronger foundation for our future. When the sports, our students, our families and all call Claremont home. Thank you very much.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And thank you. And first, I want to thank everybody in this room for taking even more time out of your busy lives to attend this meeting. I also want

[16046-28] Yoshi Manale | CITY MANAGER, City of Claremont - the chair hands the first agenda ite | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Go ahead.
TEXT> All right. Thank you. Thank you. Well, good evening.  Esteemed members of the Claremont City Council. Superintendent Pratt and the Claremont School Board representatives.  Thank you for being here. Thank you for having us tonight to discuss our ongoing partnerships and shared goals. I'd like to begin by reviewing a foundational principle in the Claremont City Charter that highlights the importance of cooperation between the city and the school district. Our charter outlines the mutual responsibility that the city government and the school district share in ensuring the well-being of our residents, particularly our students. It is collaboration and resource sharing, policy alignment and delivery of service to support city operations and the educational environment. This joint commitment is key to promoting a unified approach to solving community issues and improving the quality of life for all. With that charter mandate is our guide. I am pleased to provide an update on several areas where our collaboration has begun recently. Police Chief Walmart, Fire Chief Chamberlin and Superintendent Pratt met to discuss potential changes to student parking. The goal is to reduce parking on Broad Street, which will improve traffic flow, enhance the safety of our students and residents by relocating student parking to the staff parking lot directly outside the high school and the staff parking to summer or other street parking.
NEXT> Yoshi Manale: We believe this change will be both necessary and beneficial, and we will continue working together to find the best solutions to meet the needs of our students and the

[16046-29] Yoshi Manale | CITY MANAGER, City of Claremont - the chair hands the first agenda ite | 2024-09-30
PREV> Yoshi Manale: goal is to reduce parking on Broad Street, which will improve traffic flow, enhance the safety of our students and residents by relocating student parking to the staff parking lot directly outside the high school and the staff parking to summer or other street parking.
TEXT> We believe this change will be both necessary and beneficial, and we will continue working together to find the best solutions to meet the needs of our students and the community alike. In addition, Fire Chief Chamberlin has established a new collaborative partnership with Michelle Harrington, who recently succeeded Alex Herzog at the Tech Center. They are discussing launching a student ride along program as part of an initiative to help with fire  department recruitment. By engaging with our local schools to reignite interest in firefighting careers. They also discussed a long term vision for establishing an actual class taught by our firefighters at the tech Center. I'm not sure if a mayor has. Maybe we can have that connection as well on the emails, because I know that it used to have that so that it'd be good to maybe do them collaborative. Like.
NEXT> Dale Girard: I think Chief Chamberlin was actually one of the last classes we did as a collaboration.

[16046-45] Mike McCosker | DIRECTOR OF STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School District (effective 7/1 | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Feel the pain.
TEXT> Don't know. I'm new here in Claremont in this role. I share that I had have taught here for six years previously, three years at Stephens, three years at bluff. So I, I understand or understood the challenges of Claremont  coming back to work here  this July and then another job that I have,  between my work in Claremont and my my other job, I really see the issues of hunger and poverty. And parents who oftentimes have to choose between hitting a home or buying groceries, helping people who struggle to make ends meet every day. And those are some very real challenges in this city. I taught for three years at bluff, and quite often I would have students who would go home at the end of the day and know that they would not have another meal until they came back to school the next day. If it weren't for the different programs that would send kids home with backpacks of food on a Friday, a lot of these kids wouldn't have eaten, for the weekend, you know? So there's there's there are some really good things happening, but maybe some more things we we can do.  And, you know, I was amazed. I, I knew that Claremont had some struggles, but I never saw it more clearly until I realized that some of my students, you know, third, fourth, fifth grade have lived their entire life in temporary shelters.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: You know, that's stuff we'd hear about somewhere else, but it really came full circle working at bluff and seeing it. I just want to share some direct correlations that

[16046-46] Mike McCosker | DIRECTOR OF STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School District (effective 7/1 | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: can do. And, you know, I was amazed. I, I knew that Claremont had some struggles, but I never saw it more clearly until I realized that some of my students, you know, third, fourth, fifth grade have lived their entire life in temporary shelters.
TEXT> You know, that's stuff we'd hear about somewhere else, but it really came full circle working at bluff and seeing it. I just want to share some direct correlations that poverty,  can play in the life of many of our students that we deal with. And my hope is that, you know, you can hear me and that it helps bring some understanding to what our students and what this community faces every day. So poverty significantly impacts the academic outcomes of special ed students and honestly, all students, because not every student who's living in poverty is a special ed student. But there are at least five issues that it really affects. First, cognitive and emotional challenges. Students from low income families often face chronic stress. Which can affect brain development, particularly in the areas of memory and emotion. And this can lead to cognitive lags and emotional difficulties, making it harder for them to perform academically. They they struggle with limited resources.  Our schools and many times struggle with that. Schools and low income areas may elect the necessary resources that support special education students effectively. I know that when I was at bluff, we were using materials that were probably 20 or 30 years old,  very outdated when when you live in a digital age and the kids are inundated with, you know, the newest and the best.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Everywhere you look and but you're bringing out materials that are weathered. They're old, old, tired for them to relate to it at times. Health and nutrition. We see this

[16046-47] Mike McCosker | DIRECTOR OF STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School District (effective 7/1 | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: students effectively. I know that when I was at bluff, we were using materials that were probably 20 or 30 years old, very outdated when when you live in a digital age and the kids are inundated with, you know, the newest and the best.
TEXT> Everywhere you look and but you're bringing out materials that are weathered. They're old, old, tired for them to relate to it at times.  Health and nutrition. We see this all the time. Poor health and adequate nutrition.  Are very common in low income families.  And it can affect a child's ability to concentrate or learn. Sitting in classrooms and hear some student stomach rumbling. And you're wondering why they're not paying attention to what's going on, why they're not attending to their studies. It's awfully hard to learn when you're hungry.  When? When that's all that's on your mind.  We find a parental involvement in low income families often wanes off, and it's harder to get parents to the table to take part in their children's education. And then one of the things we're seeing really very clearly here in Claremont is social and behavioral issues. Poverty can lead to social and behavioral issues such as acting out or disengagement.  And these behaviors become more and more pronounced with our special education students. So there are some things we can do to help mitigate the impact of poverty.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: For our special ed students and all students at that one is providing comprehensive supports and services. First is health and nutrition programs. Ensure that every student has access to

[16046-48] Mike McCosker | DIRECTOR OF STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School District (effective 7/1 | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: and behavioral issues. Poverty can lead to social and behavioral issues such as acting out or disengagement. And these behaviors become more and more pronounced with our special education students. So there are some things we can do to help mitigate the impact of poverty.
TEXT> For our special ed students and all students at that one is providing comprehensive supports and services. First is health and nutrition programs.  Ensure that every student has access to healthy meals and health care services programs like a free and reduced lunch program and school based mental health clinics can address basic needs that our students face every day  offering mental health support. And some of this we've struggled with since Covid, you know, some of those old relationships have gone to the wayside, but more work and tired and reestablishing some of them. I don't think Claremont has had a mental health crisis counselor in district, and Patrick and I were talking about it in a. While. Several years.  We interviewed someone today, so hopefully we can we can reel them in and bring them into the fold to really help some of our most struggling students deal with the stress and the emotional impacts they're dealing with every day. Enhancing educational resources, making sure all of our students have access to technology. Making sure that we've got the best of specialized instructional materials that are tailored to the educational needs of all of our students.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Fostering strong community partnerships. That's what we're doing tonight, right? We're we're really trying to build a community partnership. It's very encouraging to see. I lived in a small town

[16046-49] Mike McCosker | DIRECTOR OF STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School District (effective 7/1 | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: and the emotional impacts they're dealing with every day. Enhancing educational resources, making sure all of our students have access to technology. Making sure that we've got the best of specialized instructional materials that are tailored to the educational needs of all of our students.
TEXT> Fostering strong community partnerships. That's what we're doing tonight, right? We're we're really trying to build a community partnership.  It's very encouraging to see. I lived in a small town as a board of Selectmen member for a long time, and I hated it when we got together with this school because they had a huge budget. You know, costs are always spiraling. I get it, it's it's a struggle. But we got to work together and figure out. Answer is,  making sure. Professional development. Nice to hear about the collaboration with HR. You know, trying to make sure you've got good professional development, making sure  that we're training all of our teachers on the impact of poverty and and educational needs for our struggling students, and then creating an inclusive school environment. So that there's equity for all students. You know, and I know special education is sometimes, you know, you look at the budget. A lot of money goes into special education.  I think Superintendent Pratt talked about the unpaid for mandates, the federal government in the state. State government tell us there's a lot of things we have to do there.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Non-negotiable. But they don't always pay for them. And we're left trying to figure out how to do that. So, you know, things like our related service, speech and language,

[16046-50] Mike McCosker | DIRECTOR OF STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School District (effective 7/1 | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: you know, you look at the budget. A lot of money goes into special education. I think Superintendent Pratt talked about the unpaid for mandates, the federal government in the state. State government tell us there's a lot of things we have to do there.
TEXT> Non-negotiable. But they don't always pay for them. And we're left trying to figure out how to do that. So, you know, things like our related service,  speech and language, occupational therapy, physical therapy, mental health therapists, specialized instruction from special ed teachers.  You know, there's a lot that we have to do to meet the needs of of all of our kids. And I  had another sheet on my computer. If we got the print but might have bored you with it. You know, I'm passionate for this community. I'm passionate for the students I've had in this community. I've still got some contacts with some who've long since graduated, and you're living life, and they look back at the time that they had at Stevens and some of the people who played a role in their life. And, you know, I left for three years, but I wanted to come back. I couldn't wait to come back. And so. Here I am.
NEXT> Unidentified: Expensive? Yeah.

[16046-58] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: stop bringing students back? You know, what does that look like for Claremont? Because you figure for spending $4 million, even if we get, you know, three students back anywhere between, you know, without transportation, you're looking at 75, $80,000 just to get them there.
TEXT> And then it goes up from there. You could be paying much as 100, over $100,000 for one student if it's not a district placement. So we're really trying to reel that in and find ways that we can facilitate. We'll probably never get all the students back, but what the ones we can get back trying to create our own alternative kind of setting for out of district placement that we can use for Claremont to bring some of our students back, but also open it up as a cost saving for surrounding districts who are paying the high costs instead of them paying $100,000. If we have our own program here, maybe they can pay 50 to $60,000. So it's a revenue for us, but it's also a cost saving for other districts, you know? But that's one of those things that doesn't happen overnight. But we're spending a lot of time trying to figure out how we can make that happen here for a collaborative that other districts can pay into, because that's money that is coming out of taxpayers pockets. And we're not we're not ignoring it. But I think in full disclosure, there's a lot of money tied up within our budget. Like it's it's only second to employee benefits and salaries. So, you know, we're really trying to focus on that.  Because like we said before, it's all coming out of the same pocket. It doesn't matter where we're spending it.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I mean, taxpayers, a taxpayer. So, you know, special ed funding is, you know, it's it's not unusual to have a district, you know, be, you know, in the top

[16046-62] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. And Assistant Superintendent. Got some slides to show. Okay. You can begin with this little slice of okay. So yes.
TEXT> So I just want to give you some sense of  the work that's happening now and the improvements that are being made to instruction right now. Just understanding where we're at in terms of that demolition and reconstruction process,  I think it's important to understand that frequent turnover at the essay for a number of years has created a lack of clear instructional priorities for teachers, so instruction hasn't been aligned to the New Hampshire standards for a college and career readiness, which dictate what students should learn at each grade level. Instruction K-12 can be thought of as a relay race. You need to make sure if you want to win the race that everybody is on the same track. Everybody is able to efficiently pass the baton on to the next runner and that everybody knows what the goal is in this district. Our students are the batons, and it is not clear that everybody has been on the same track. It's evident to me that we haven't even been in the same stadium. So I think we're really working on getting everybody on the same track right now. I can tell you that right now.   We have instructional materials for both English language arts and mathematics for the elementary level that are aligned to the standards. This is the first time this is happening.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: Claremont, I am so excited to be a part of this work. I want to highlight the fact that we are working with a non profit publisher, Great Minds. They

[16046-63] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: on getting everybody on the same track right now. I can tell you that right now. We have instructional materials for both English language arts and mathematics for the elementary level that are aligned to the standards. This is the first time this is happening.
TEXT> Claremont, I am so excited to be a part of this work. I want to highlight the fact that we are working with a non profit publisher, Great Minds. They put out both our Ela program and our math program. That's huge because they are not focused on profit. If I call it Pearson and I tell them that I want textbooks, their their main interest is how much can they sell me and how much can they get me to spend. If I'm dealing with a nonprofit, their concern is what do we need in order to help our kids reach their potential? So it's a very, very different partnership. And again, I'm really excited to be part of that work. As we continue to, to work on this, We're also really focused on how do we use data and where do we get data. So we're using a variety of assessment tools both for reading and mathematics, so that data can help us understand what instructional decisions we can make in order to help improve learning outcomes. Ideally, if we know what every kid needs, we can begin addressing that.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: So again, that's another piece that's in in progress. I want you to understand that if our students, we have many students, as Mike McCosker has pointed out, who are

[16046-64] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: we're using a variety of assessment tools both for reading and mathematics, so that data can help us understand what instructional decisions we can make in order to help improve learning outcomes. Ideally, if we know what every kid needs, we can begin addressing that.
TEXT> So again, that's another piece that's in in progress.  I want you to understand that if our students, we have many students, as Mike McCosker has pointed out, who are starting off in homes that are in poverty, if those kids are starting kindergarten, it's not uncommon for them to be starting at about,  the intellectual level of a 33 year old or a four year old. So in order for those kids to make gains, we need to have high quality instructional programs and a lot of professional development for our teachers, because if those kids make one year's worth of growth, that's great, but they're still behind the eight ball. So the goal is to help them make more than a year's worth of growth, ideally 1.1 and a 12:45 and a half years worth of growth. So that way we can begin closing the achievement gap. What I would love to see is every kid starting at the middle school level, on grade level, it's a goal, it's in progress. But that's where I want to be. That's what would attract new residents to the city and really support the economic growth of the community.  Change can happen all at once.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: One of the things that our teachers are dealing with right now, that the new Ela materials for English language arts, that's a heavy lift there in year 2 or

[16046-66] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: skillful at actually using them. So that takes a little bit of time and a little bit of practice for early signs of improvement. This year, I'm going to be looking at third grade. I want to begin seeing a little bump in the scores.
TEXT> Ideally  other grades. We should also begin seeing small incremental improvements as the kids in k one two start moving up over the next few years, we should see increase NH scores at the elementary level. And as those kids move up, we should see those can continue to increase because now we're running the same race and we're all on the same track. So that's what I'm looking for.  And my goal  I would love to see us meet and ideally exceed the state average on the NHS assessments.  Given the level of poverty that we have, if that's our target, I think we would be doing a really good job ensuring that all of our kids have an educational experience that provides them  with opportunities for success. And ultimately, I think that's what we all want for our kids.
NEXT> Mike Koski: I just have some early reading data. In 2122 we were still using. Oh thank you. We were. Off target, so to speak, with our learning materials. So here we're

[16046-69] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 - presents the K-4 spring reading-leve | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: Now the next step is to make sure it's consistent as much as we can through all the grade levels. We're definitely seeing growth. It's just not the rate that the state wants to see it. But kids are improving in the past two years.
TEXT> And and the reason for showing these early grades is this is where our focus has been. We're starting at the early grades, building the reading level base of our students. So as they progress through the system,  to go into the upper grades and just try to start there or at middle school, it requires a lot of specialists. Those teachers are content specialists, and we'd have to hire reading specialists. Our elementary school teachers are reading teachers, and so we can more quickly implement changes and get the students to move from that way. Any any questions?
NEXT> Unidentified City Councilor: Yes. I just have one quick question. I'm just I'm assuming that the 2223 and 2324 each line is the same. So the top line in the first one is

[16046-71] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 - presents the K-4 spring reading-leve | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified City Councilor: the green. But I'm also seeing, in grade. Yes. One. You're seeing some red increases in there as well. So you talk about growth in the green area. But I'm also seeing some based on your numbers that Pearson growth in the area as well.
TEXT> Can you. Yes a little bit about that. So it we always get our highest scores in kindergarten. It's the easiest place to make growth as as things become more difficult becomes more challenging for students. And and so we we are shifting our students from right to left overall. But we do end up with still some. Each year becomes exceedingly not exceeded  continually more difficult. So so yeah, there may be some drop off.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: One of one of the other things that I would point out is that there's a lot of, students we have occasionally have students leave the district and then students

[16046-72] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike Koski: becomes more challenging for students. And and so we we are shifting our students from right to left overall. But we do end up with still some. Each year becomes exceedingly not exceeded continually more difficult. So so yeah, there may be some drop off.
TEXT> One of one of the other things that I would point out is that there's a lot of, students we have occasionally have students leave the district and then students come in. So we don't have control over. What those students coming in have in terms of their learning gaps. I would say that  the one thing that we do have control over is the kids that start off in kindergarten and stay with us. If we make sure that those kids are growing, then we know that we're vertically aligned. So there will be some variation in the data, especially if we get kids coming in from other communities. So that needs to be taken into account as well.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah.

[16046-79] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Okay. Yeah. And I think relatively just one jump in. And so relatively, you know, in this district a lot of this is very new, you know, really  identifying the professional development that teachers need so we can continue to move forward. But we're also seeing is that, you know, we're we're seeing over the last 2 or 3 years, we are retaining more teachers. I think when I got here in 21, I think we had about a turnover rate of. 41, 41 teachers this year. We, you know, we had the high of 41 teachers. And so, you know, in all the fields when you do that, have to do that every year, it backs you up because now you have to retrain and get them all qualified. So we are up to think we this year we hired 2323 teachers. So making that difference in that difference is going to help us to not have to retrain and go back and spiral back every year to train a good portion of the staff. So we are retaining more teachers. But also when you look at the test scores, one of the other red things I've seen and  in Claremont is that as the kids get up to the higher level and they don't, you know, like the expectations that we're requiring for them now, you know, at the high school level, you see, is that the parents will pull out saying, I'm going to homeschool  my homeschool
NEXT> Chris Pratt: for a few years or a year, and all of a sudden we want them back. So now we're also dealing with that as we're really trying to create a

[16046-80] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: the kids get up to the higher level and they don't, you know, like the expectations that we're requiring for them now, you know, at the high school level, you see, is that the parents will pull out saying, I'm going to homeschool my homeschool
TEXT> for a few years or a year, and all of a sudden we want them back. So now we're also dealing with that as we're really trying to create a structure of accountability in the higher grades. And they're, you know, when they don't like it, they'll pull them out, they'll homeschool, it's not working out. And then they come back. So those kids are behind now too. So that might be some of the the red areas to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just I want to jump in. One thing is I want everybody to know that our teachers are now, at market rate. We are we are where we should be

[16046-81] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - presides over the ENTIRE joint meeting | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: the higher grades. And they're, you know, when they don't like it, they'll pull them out, they'll homeschool, it's not working out. And then they come back. So those kids are behind now too. So that might be some of the the red areas to.
TEXT> Just I want to jump in. One thing is I want everybody to know that our teachers are now,  at market rate. We are we are where we should be as far as our salaries and our benefits. We are pulling teachers now from Newport,  Kearsarge. So teachers from other districts are coming here because our compensation and benefits package is very competitive. And I think in part that has  impacted our turnover, which is fantastic for our students. So just publicly, we thank the taxpayers for supporting,  the board initiative to get our teachers up at  a market rate, or we can attract the folks that we need  to do the job that needs to be done. So thank you.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: Question to answer that question as well. Their core cards are critical because they provide that structure. Teachers have to fill out the report cards. It's a legal document. I

[16046-85] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified City Councilor: for that to really skew some of this. In your opinion, these challenges are the challenges that we face. Is it stabilized, is it getting worse? Is it getting better, and is it a critical variable in assessing the improvements to the program and students?
TEXT> So I think it's definitely something to be aware of.  We know that there's there's no question that poverty has an impact on a child's learning. However, we also know that there are strategies that we can also use to help engage kids. And if we engage kids and progress academically, and we support their social emotional growth that supports, their academics, and it creates a buffer, right? Poverty is devastating. But when we use strategies like engaging students in academic conversations. So if I back up, kids growing up in poverty often grow up in homes where there are very short, stunted sentences, do this. Don't do that. Okay, get ready for bed. Eat your dinner. Where as middle class and upper class homes, they engage children in conversation. Where would you like to go today? Do you want to go to the park? Do you want to go to the library? So the level of conversation is completely different. One of the things that we're focused on, you can see this in some of the posters behind you that's left over from a professional development session that we did.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: We I provided training for teachers on how to engage kids in conversation. For example, if we have a Stem, a poster that says I agree or disagree because then

[16046-86] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: you want to go to the library? So the level of conversation is completely different. One of the things that we're focused on, you can see this in some of the posters behind you that's left over from a professional development session that we did.
TEXT> We I provided training for teachers on how to engage kids in conversation. For example, if we have a Stem, a poster that says I agree or disagree because then the children can learn how to fill in that blank and we're teaching them that their ideas matter. We're teaching them how to engage in conversation with their peers and how to disagree appropriately. So we are embedding or focus on, increasing the level of academic rigor through conversation first, and that can be across the content. So  talking with children about what they're reading, talking with them about how they solve them,  a math program and how did you think about that,  and then also using that to support their social development. That's those are all things that a school can do if we focus on that. So I'm really trying to focus on what are the most essential factors that we need to focus on in order to get our kids to move forward and  provide our kids in poverty with a buffer, because these things help protect kids. It's good and right for kids.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And I think it's it's worthy of saying is that it's just in the last five years is that schools have changed so much. Were at one point we were

[16046-87] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: to focus on what are the most essential factors that we need to focus on in order to get our kids to move forward and provide our kids in poverty with a buffer, because these things help protect kids. It's good and right for kids.
TEXT> And I think it's it's worthy of saying is that it's just in the last five years  is that schools have changed so much. Were at one point we were just charged with coming in, doing your English and math and your science and your social studies. But the way it is now is that in some areas in Claremont is not unique to this, is that now we're doing what private schools used to do. We're trying to educate the whole child. Before, if they wanted that, your parents would pay to send their student to a private school. Now we're looking okay before we get a lot of these kids, before we even get them to level of learning, we're going to make sure that they're in a place in a state that they can learn. Like I say, if they're coming in, being hungry, if they're coming in with a with a bad home life or whatever the circumstances are, is that we get a as a school now we have to make sure that they're in that state to learn before we can even present them with the the materials that we're talking about. Now, that's a huge shift because like we talked about earlier, with that shift comes, you know, the cost of it.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: You know, we're not just we're just not providing them education. They're academics like we used to. Public schools have become we got to take care of the whole child.

[16046-90] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified City Councilor: lower level education and helping that, but I haven't heard much about those that already exceed those standards. And they're being taught at that same level from my understanding. So what are we doing for those that are a little bit more above the schedule?
TEXT> I can I can talk a little bit on move forward. But it seems that, you know, at the we're doing a lot more what's called benchmarking students in regards to at one point when, you know, most of us were in school, you get your tests at the beginning of the year and you get one at the end of the year. Anything that happens in between if you're struggle and you're struggling. But now the way the, curriculum in our systems are set up, we benchmark the students. It could be once a week, it could be twice a week. So we're getting live data in regards to is the instructional practices working. So we can dive into you know this kid's excelling. He needs more challenging stuff.  And I can speak like for the high school, for instance, you know, is that we use the Excel which every kid takes their test. And so we know we're meeting them, meeting their individual needs. The teachers can move forward what they need to teach, but we're assessing these kids on a weekly basis so they can take a look and say, okay, this kid's struggling at this level.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We can't push forward until they meet these here. So we're really trying to, at least in Claremont, based on individualized and learning styles. I know at the high school,

[16046-91] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: And so we know we're meeting them, meeting their individual needs. The teachers can move forward what they need to teach, but we're assessing these kids on a weekly basis so they can take a look and say, okay, this kid's struggling at this level.
TEXT> We can't push forward until they meet these here. So we're really trying to, at least in Claremont, based on individualized and learning styles. I know at the high school, you know, we wanted to provide opportunities for the kids who were excelling. So we went from, I think 4 to 6, do enrollment classes through River Valley Community College. I think we're up to 14 now. And that meaning they can get college credit for taking a class, whether it's on site or going to River Valley Community College. You know, we and we also offer a lot of online stuff, too, for kids who want to excel. But we're trying to expand on those opportunities, not just at the early levels. Well, it's more about finding out where they are. So they're going so challenging them so they don't get bored with school. So we're trying to work at at both ends here. But you know, the when you when we're talking about, you know in the public eye people focus on you know, the test scores and you know that's what you're seeing here. So we're really trying to work at both ends and providing opportunities for the kids who are struggling and the kids who are selling, but also the kids in the middle.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: The only way we can do that is continue to move forward with assessments that we're we're looking at them periodically, not just waiting. Oh, beginning of the year data

[16046-92] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: on you know, the test scores and you know that's what you're seeing here. So we're really trying to work at both ends and providing opportunities for the kids who are struggling and the kids who are selling, but also the kids in the middle.
TEXT> The only way we can do that is continue to move forward with assessments that we're we're looking at them periodically, not just waiting. Oh, beginning of the year data versus end of the year data. So you know that's where we're trying to that's what we've been trying to work on is meeting the kids all the kids where they are. And that's a lot of the conversation that's gone into the strategic planning that we're doing is how do we meet not just kids, both ends, but all the kids. And it comes down to individualized learning for each kid. I think that's where we are right now is, is navigating that and figure out the best way to do it. For the students in Claremont that we have right now, we have to revisit it, you know, 4 or 5 years down the road as as kids continue to move through the different schools. But right now, that's one of the main objectives of a strategic plan, not just to help us that we're spending money. It's going to be built around the strategic plan, but it's also if we're educating students, we want to make sure that the way we're doing it has to be fluid, but we're just not taking data twice a year.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's ongoing data points, so we know what we're doing is working because with that cost, cost money. If if we keep doing good after bad, we want to make

[16046-106] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: It was okay.
TEXT> RSA 193. See, this statute outlines the establishment of educational standards in New Hampshire. It emphasizes the importance of adopting clear and measurable standards for student learning, which I believe our administrative staff and our teachers are all on that path. To do that again in the school board, we're looking for the support of the community and from the school board to be able to do this, to move the educational system. In Claremont, RSA 18611 is the RSA discusses the duties of the New Hampshire Department of Education, including the responsibilities to develop and implement educational standards that promote student achievement and readiness for post-secondary education careers. RSA 1891. The statute posts on the basic educational standards that schools must adhere to, ensuring that all students receive a quality education aligned with state expectations. Do you want me to try to get into it? So I'm on, I. Think. Screen three one go. One more. There we go.  Okay. Curriculum development. The RSA guides the development of curricula that meets the established state standards, ensuring the educational materials and teaching practices align with the learning goals set forth by the state. I know I'm kind of reading this word for word assessment and accountability. The RSA is also relate to the assessment of student performance and accountability measures in place to ensure the schools are meeting the established standards, updates and revisions.
NEXT> Mary Henry: The laws may periodically update, which will reflected changes in educational needs, trends and practices, ensuring that standards remain relevant and effective, which I think we have gone through a

[16046-107] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mary Henry: forth by the state. I know I'm kind of reading this word for word assessment and accountability. The RSA is also relate to the assessment of student performance and accountability measures in place to ensure the schools are meeting the established standards, updates and revisions.
TEXT> The laws may periodically update, which will reflected changes in educational needs, trends and practices, ensuring that standards remain relevant and effective, which I think we have gone through a major overhaul.  Again, I think the state needs to do a little bit more, but that's my opinion.  State standards for special ed. These are the ones that really hit us hard. Concerning special education, primary falls under 186. See, here are the key aspects to that related for special education. The purpose establishes the framework for providing special education services to eligible students with disabilities. It ensures that these students receive the necessary to support, to  access a free and appropriate public education, or they call it Fate.  Eligibility. The statute also outlines the criteria to determining that eligibility for those students individualized education programs again i.e., mandates and the development of individual  IEPs for students identified as needing special education services. Again, this is all out of our hands and what we have to do.  But we have a team that does that. And Mike McCosker could speak more about that than I could.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And this is when we get into, you know, the high costs that we see that drives the school budget is the special education cost, because at any point, you

[16046-110] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Microphone at the podium.
TEXT> At the podium. You're not at the podium okay. So next, parental involvement. The statute emphasizes the importance of involving parents and special education process, which we do through the I. We have our parents are involved in this now. Free and appropriate public education. RSA 186 C ensures that all eligible students with disabilities receive Fate, which includes special education related services designed to meet their individual needs. Now,  I want to talk a little bit about this, because if you're in a private school, you don't have to take special ed kids, right? If you're in a private school and you're in our district or you're in a,  a charter school within your district, this school has to provide services on our dime, not  on the charter schools dime. So we still have to take care of our kids that are in other schools within our district and to provide those services, even though we don't get special ed for those special education, we don't get any revenues from that through adequacy aid. So just want to make people aware. Of that. Yes.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: So and we've got two schools in district one charter school, one private school. The other thing on faith that's important to mention is it's free, appropriate public education at

[16046-115] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - presides over the ENTIRE joint meeting | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mary Henry: That's correct. So like I said, and we just don't get any money for that.
TEXT> And so if a child another piece I'm sorry if I was you this is what I would want to know. So if you if we have a child that the parents pay for their kids to go to a private school, the state of New Hampshire gives us, I think, roughly $4,000 per student. That was in our system, in our buildings. So we don't get that money at the district level, but we have to provide all the services to that child out of our school budget.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Usually a lot more than four grand.

[16046-120] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: To 21 to. 22. Oh, sorry. No.
TEXT> Sure. Okay. 21 to 22, I apologize. 21 to 22. Oh, gosh, I know, scared myself there. So now we have to pay for those students.  Till the age of 22. We did receive one year  a grant that came through to help offset some of that money, which was about $200,000 that we received in this district.  Inadequacy aid. But again, that was only a one time deal, from what I understand. If it may have changed, maybe there's another year, but I think there's only one year on that. One year.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think it's the only one.

[16046-144] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: Slowly going to lose money.
TEXT> Slowly going to lose money over ten years.  Kind of like they were doing with the stabilization grant, which wasn't exactly working out because a lot of the towns like Claremont and another district that I was working with at the time, it was really hurting them because they did not have the funds within their town to offset that. So they looked at major cuts, and you get to a point where you can only cut so much and there's nothing left. And if you're trying to grow your community, you need a school. And that's what usually brings in the families to be here.  But I just wanted to let you know that as far as adequacy goes, please contact your representatives. I can't stress that more.  It's it's so important for our students and for our communities like Claremont that really rely heavily on adequacy aid. The next thing is our estimated revenues.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Next slide Vanna.

[16046-157] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> And you know, again, I know the school board is looking very diligently into this going into fiscal year 26 budget.  You know, they've given us some directives on where they want us to go. And I know as an administrative team, we are looking very closely at things. I know when I did fiscal year 25 budget, I looked at what we had at the time, and in fiscal year 25 budget, we had to do away with Esser. So we eliminated a lot of positions through there. But we did as a school board, wanted us to do keep some of those people because we felt they were going to help us move the needle, such as coaches such as an extra, Instructional instruction coaches, the extra, the one you just found to hire mental health counselor. We were looking at all those things as key points to try to move us in the right direction for our students. Okay. Next one. So this is just the pie chart  of it showing you, like, the regular instruction and how much it is and how much special it is based on that same thing as what I just talked about, but just in a little bit different way, debt services.
NEXT> Mary Henry: I want to say that we'll be going away and we'll decrease every year. I think I said we had another three years on that before it goes away. So

[16046-176] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified City Councilor: that I'm saying cut people. That's not what I'm talking about. I've been talking about using the resources that we have, keeping those people, bringing more people in, but doing the process in such a way that it's even more efficiently saving money, saving costs.
TEXT> It's looking it's looking at working smart enough guides to trying to do everything we can with the resources we have. And I think, you know, and I think the teachers that we have here, there, we have worked in a lot of districts. I mean, the dedication that we see from the district, the, the, the community support, you know, that I feel that the schools have in just in my short time here. I mean, I think that's, that's that's our goal is to do the best we can with what we have. You know, in a city, schools, they don't have that luxury. It doesn't matter. You got to prevail. You know, every student has to learn. And sometimes,  you know, whether it's urban, pro, urban, Local or. Or, you know, suburb, it's it's the same we have to educate these kids and there's no excuse for,  you know what we have, what we don't have. We have to find a way to do it. So that's the first step in meeting.
NEXT> Patrick O'Hearn: Tonight to pay. You back off of Mr. Pratt's point. When I. Listened to you. Talked about process improvement. I think with. A. Strategic plan. We're doing. Something specific. And

[16046-178] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - presides over the ENTIRE joint meeting | 2024-09-30
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: then how do we track it. How do we improve it. And then what do we want to look at the end of the year. So I think we're just at the infancy stage of those kind of more nuanced process improvement type of plans.
TEXT> So truly, when I say we were we're starting from. Like foundation. Yeah, we're starting in. The foundation. I think it's in, in some part related to budget cuts in the past. So we've kind of stripped down to bare bones and then all those luxury kind of activities, such as data points and gathering kind of fell to the wayside. And, just I guess I can just. Frank isn't here. So I was he was supposed to speak to the finance subcommittees role, the budget process. And that kind of speaks to your question, is that the charge that. The Finance Committee has. Given to the administrative team, as well as the board is to, of course, provide high quality education to our students, but to look in every nook and cranny for efficiencies, not necessarily cuts, but how can we get more with what we have now and what we need to have without asking our employees to work at 100. Percent.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: With no employee more than 100%, or think we look at like 80%, that can bump up to maybe 8,590% productivity and like peak demand situations. But what we're trying

[16046-185] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: putting those, you know, funds aside, to be able to pay for these things so we don't have to hit the taxpayers with a, you know, $40,000 bus and have, you know, so we're trying to budget that way as well. Yeah. At this moment.
TEXT> Then I want to make a comment and then I'll go to the report.  One of the things that I hear people say, oh, you should treat, you know, run education like a business.  And,  one of the things that when you try and make the correlation between public education and a manufacturing,  if you're a manufacturer, you get to control your raw materials. If if you've got a supplier that is not living up to expectations, your expectations for the raw materials that are coming in, you switch suppliers. You get a better quality, a better deal on your on your raw, raw goods that come into for manufacturing.  Education doesn't have that luxury. We are totally dependent on whatever students come in. We have all the laws that they've gone through. I think the staff has done a great job. The many kinds and the many levels of  requirements that we have to meet, and we have absolutely no control over the raw materials that we use  that come into our schools. We have to educate our students. And that's that's a very big difference from public education. When you try to compare it to manufacturing.
NEXT> Unidentified: I figured out.

[16046-188] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay, you go ahead and then I'll.
TEXT> Get my I'm just going to put one more. Thing out there. Please contact your representatives, please, I beg you. I was at that trial the whole week I testified. And it is so important that you reach out. Education is really in a critical state at the state, in my view, based on how I feel about education, I don't know if everybody else feels that way. We all have our own opinions, but I really see that, and I see it starting to hurt us. And, I believe in having the playing field be level and fair. And right now it isn't. We have all these laws are saying that we have to abide by other places. Do not. So again, like I said, I really, truly believe that we need to look at how we educate our fund adequacy. I know that there may not be an ideal revenue stream for that. I understand that, but we do need to try to find something and be creative about it because it is so important. Education is the foundation for every kid you know. I wish I had thought that when I was in school because I did not, you know, but, it is so important.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So let me talk about the tech center because I'm really excited about that. So that was, one of the things that's why I joined the school board. I guess,

[16046-189] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mary Henry: try to find something and be creative about it because it is so important. Education is the foundation for every kid you know. I wish I had thought that when I was in school because I did not, you know, but, it is so important.
TEXT> So let me talk about the tech center because I'm really excited about that. So that was, one of the things that's why I joined the school board. I guess,  she's a year ago. My God, so many.  So,  I had. So I try and tell the truth, and that's not true. So,  a couple of years ago, there was a lot of focus on the, the tech center and what was happening with the tech center. And I truly believe that,  this is a tremendous resource. This community has,  and we need to maximize this resource. And I think that Claremont is the perfect community for a, robust,  technical program.  We we  need this program.  And, and so a couple of years ago,  we formed the  visioning Committee. We called it  it was about 25 or 30 people from the community who met pretty much once a month to identify how we could what what steps could we do to improve the tech center, to get numbers up, to get programs expanded? To to so that the community could see the benefit from  training those students?  You might keep in mind that about, 35% of our students don't go on to higher education.  They need. So when you're talking about those students, this is the perfect place. We need to train those students,  while they're part of the public school system.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So the technical, school. We had a couple of years ago, we had five programs. I think we're up to seven programs now. We have a new director who joined

[16046-191] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: and ask them, how how they happen to get involved in tech programs, what their, process was to enroll in tech programs, what kinds of, requirements, what kinds of courses did they have to have before they couldn't role in the two year tech programs?
TEXT> The tech program  provides a two year,  credentialing for for various programs. And she she  recorded those 150 interviewed interviews and placed them regularly at the high school library so that other students at the high school can see, oh, there's Joe. I didn't know he was at the tech center. Oh, that's what he had to do in order to enroll at the tech center. And now, you know, you have a conversation,  that the kids are beginning to see,  the tech program as  a viable,  a career, something to work toward.  Second thing that.  So I thought that was terrific. Second thing that  we, we were excited about is the the partnerships with the community. And again, my experience on economic development, and I think it's all about building relationships with, with  the businesses we have in town, the businesses need employees. And we at the tech center need to train those, those students so that they can go into the job market and be valuable employees. As of September 17th, they already had had a field trip. God, I can't remember. Oh, there was a. It was. Thank you. Thank you.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you. It was to Golden Cross. The students at the tech center went to Golden Cross as as a potential further employer. I know that on Thursday this week,

[16046-192] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: center need to train those, those students so that they can go into the job market and be valuable employees. As of September 17th, they already had had a field trip. God, I can't remember. Oh, there was a. It was. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you.  It was to Golden Cross. The students at the tech center went to Golden Cross as as a potential further employer.  I know that on Thursday this week,  micros is coming to the school here and work with the students about what the opportunities are at micros and how they can be trained here at the tech center. I know, next week.  Nancy Merrill, our economic development  director, is meeting with Michelle to work on working together.  Being able to share information about what are some of the,  pays  pay scales for jobs in the area so that they can market that to our students and say, look, if you do training here at the tech center. This is the kind of pay you can expect to get. In the it's only the 30th of September. Michelle has already met with the staff at the county home because there are many opportunities there. It started when we were  Mike is works at is an employee at the county home. And during our discussion we said, gosh, we see,  great interface with the tech center and the, the county home.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And, and Mike was saying, yeah, you know, we're we're building this facility and for the building trades folks, they need to come and see different stages of, that that

[16046-193] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: the county home because there are many opportunities there. It started when we were Mike is works at is an employee at the county home. And during our discussion we said, gosh, we see, great interface with the tech center and the, the county home.
TEXT> And, and Mike was saying, yeah, you know, we're we're building this facility and for the building trades folks, they need to come and see different stages of,  that that growth construction that's happening on. And  I know Derek Ferland, the county administrator, is working with Michelle. And, they have already set up meetings  and had meetings so that the students in our new,  medical tech program,  they're working with getting the  county home. They they can see how some of our students can become their employees and how they can  interface there. Another area between the county home and here is with the dietary program. Our  culinary arts program is working with them to to go out and observe what it's like actually providing food. And so I know that tomorrow night,  here at the tech center, all of the, crafts each each area  of, each area of trade, for example, culinary arts, building trades, plumbing and heating  of engineering,  medical technology. Each one of those areas has its own craft committee. Craft committee means that they are people in the community who are employers or employees of that area of, training. And and they meet with the staff here at the tech center to make sure there's a good interface with what they're learning every day here and looking towards  future employment.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And so tomorrow night is a giant meeting of all the craft committees. Michelle, Harrington again is coordinating that. So you've got the members of the community, the employers with

[16046-194] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: people in the community who are employers or employees of that area of, training. And and they meet with the staff here at the tech center to make sure there's a good interface with what they're learning every day here and looking towards future employment.
TEXT> And so tomorrow night is a giant meeting of all the craft committees.  Michelle,  Harrington again is coordinating that. So you've got the members of the community, the employers with the tech center,  teachers  working together to make sure that that we have that that interface working together.  So it's a very exciting time.  And we are lucky to have  our technical director as our superintendent. And, and in the past,  one of the things that we heard repeatedly when we were doing our visioning committee work over the past couple of years is how important, how critical it is for the the superintendent to be an advocate in integrated with the success of your tech program. And indeed, that's what we we have. I am delighted that that that's working in a positive way. And if you haven't met Michelle Harrington, if you see a whirlwind go by, it's probably Michelle that she is amazing. Additionally, we do. We finally yay! We have a career counselor who is full time here at the Tech Center, who works with our tech students to make sure that that  our students are are doing well, integrating with their academics, with the tech program, and that we're building the programs and get getting more students here at the tech center.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Thank you.

[16046-216] Unidentified City Councilor | CLAREMONT CITY COUNCILOR, never named - the trades/industrial-arts cou | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: And our aging population.
TEXT> And, and  the plumbers, electricians, the carpenters are such, such demand right now. And this is right. This would help with the housing problem. And and these kids go and they don't have to have a college debt and make lots of money.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And they can have a good life.

[16046-218] Unidentified City Councilor | CLAREMONT CITY COUNCILOR, never named - the trades/industrial-arts cou | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: And they can have a good life.
TEXT> It is, it is it's a much better program. And I applaud, you know, the the vision going forward. Because a lot of the things that I was doing, we didn't have the companies coming in and talking to us, taking us out there. And those are the key things that's going to get these kids out there and interested in the program. So thank you.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Hopefully it's going to get them stay in the community one way or another. But you can work in the community. And it's like you said, just, you know, if

[16046-224] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: My brothers are in the trees and they making a lot more than I am.
TEXT> And that's. Why we want the trades.  Representatives for the from the trades to come into the schools and talk to the kids and say, look, this is, you know, you're going to have a nice life. You know, you got to work hard and you got to pay attention. You got to learn. But you could have a very good, very good life.
NEXT> Unidentified: And there are significant shortages in the trades we need. We need people who are well trained.

[16046-232] Unidentified | Claremont School Board member - BONNIE MILES or ARLENE HAWKINS. The di | 2024-09-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: talking about with your constituents, the energy that you see in our district and the positive vision that we have. And I think we have a real chance of moving the needle. And the first time, for the first time in a long, long time.
TEXT> And the quality of leadership that is here now in Claremont is wonderful, coming from different states, to see the quality of our administrative team really makes one optimistic. And we recognize the balance of our responsibility to our students and to our taxpayers, because we're all taxpayers and maintaining that balance. So looking for quality and understanding the need for efficiency. And I'm excited also to be a part.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That as you talk to citizens in the community, I hope you share our enthusiasm and our vision for removing the district forward. And I think that we all, as

[16046-233] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: really makes one optimistic. And we recognize the balance of our responsibility to our students and to our taxpayers, because we're all taxpayers and maintaining that balance. So looking for quality and understanding the need for efficiency. And I'm excited also to be a part.
TEXT> That as you talk to citizens in the community, I hope you share  our enthusiasm and our vision for removing the district forward. And I think that we all,  as school board members and as  city councilors, I think we all have to encourage our parents, the parents out there to to read to their kids, to talk to their kids, to have conversations. Kat, the  curriculum director, was talking about how important it is to have discussions with with children, to have them learn about talking and and speech, speech development, reading, reading to the kids, having the kids show up at school have 100% attendance. Those are all things that make such a difference that together we can work  and and the schools will benefit from that cooperative effort.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Yes. Anyway.

[16046-239] Unidentified City Councilor | CLAREMONT CITY COUNCILOR, never named - the chair says 'We haven't hea | 2024-09-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: We haven't heard from you at all.
TEXT> I'll go down. I think this. Was great. It made me feel a lot better. I've been I was on the school board when we did the first Claremont last year. That's how old I am. Not 25. And you look 25, but, you know, not a lot has changed at the state.  They bounce things back and forth.  It depends on who's in office, but I don't know if we'll ever see them, in my opinion. Do what's the responsible thing and create equity in the state for all the kids. So unfortunately that bounces the ball back to us. And it's difficult in Claremont because we all know that that taxpayers struggle. And we just had a reval that that put a lot of the burden  off of the commercial properties amongst the backs of the residents again. So that makes it even tougher. So when we spend money at the city level, we try to do it as efficiently as we can. I've watched many players come and go from the school board and the administration over the years, and I have never seen any, any group that I think will represent this community better than this group here.
NEXT> Unidentified City Councilor: I'm encouraged. I'm happy. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You guys want to do. And, you know, it's not easy because there's never any easy answers when it comes

[16046-249] Unidentified | Claremont School Board member - BONNIE MILES or ARLENE HAWKINS. The di | 2024-09-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's our vision. So do we.
TEXT> Yep. And we work as very well as a cohesive team. You know, we all come with different perspectives, but we have our children and our taxpayers and people put us in this, in these roles to help Claremont become what it can be.  And we don't lose sight of that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Anything else? Yes. Mr..

[16049-23] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> I'll leave school right now. Good times.  So I have slides.  I shared them with Mr.. And I think Chelsea has them too. Oh, they're in your packet. Yes. Perfect. They're just on my phone, so that's why I'm looking down. This is my. I want to say, third year running summer school. I think at the high school,  this year it went from July 10th to August 8th, from 9 a.m. to noon, Monday through Thursday.  It really went from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., but we were finding that the kids got very squirrely around the 12:00 mark. It's hot. The second floor of the Stevens High School building. And they just they were kind of done, but they can't. And so we changed it to noon, and we saw a very big decrease in behaviors and increasing engagement, which we thought was really good. So we'll be keeping those hours going forward.  It's Monday through Thursday because it's summer. We want kids be able to still enjoy time with their friends and their families and have vacations.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: Kids work, so we won't be able to have the flexibility for them for working. July 8th and ninth was set aside for teacher workdays. We have found that teachers

[16049-24] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: decrease in behaviors and increasing engagement, which we thought was really good. So we'll be keeping those hours going forward. It's Monday through Thursday because it's summer. We want kids be able to still enjoy time with their friends and their families and have vacations.
TEXT> Kids work, so we won't be able to have the flexibility for them for working. July 8th and ninth was set aside for teacher workdays. We have found that teachers need those two days to prep for  the summer work.  Because I don't always have finalize the list until school is over. So when they come in for those two workdays, I give them their lists, they make their packets, Google classrooms, whatever they're going to have the kids do for summer work, and then they're ready to roll when the kids come in. We have Chromebooks for the kids to use  in the library. We also use Hilary's computer lab,  and Mr. Silva's computer lab. So we have plenty of technology for the kids to use as well.  We have eight teachers. We had two English,  Sandra and Joseph. Tim Weatherford. Hillary did computers.  Mike Richmond and Rick Johnson did math. And then Ryan Markey and Leslie did science. So we covered English, math, science and digital technology. And then you have me as a coordinator. So we have a pretty strong group.  Very strong. Pretty strong. Very strong.  We were all worked really well together this year, and the kids responded very well to everyone, which was really good to see.  You know, there's a point.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: It was a source of pride for some of the kids, like, oh, I passed, I did it. You know, when the teachers were there to be happy with them

[16049-25] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: me as a coordinator. So we have a pretty strong group. Very strong. Pretty strong. Very strong. We were all worked really well together this year, and the kids responded very well to everyone, which was really good to see. You know, there's a point.
TEXT> It was a source of pride for some of the kids, like, oh, I passed, I did it. You know, when the teachers were there to be happy with them as well.  Students are recommended by their teachers in the appropriate areas throughout the year. Based off they have their credit. So if they have an F in a class, it's teacher recommendation. If a student earns an Re, which is recovery eligible, it's  automatic summer school option for them.  But if they earn an F the teacher to say, you know, you got a ways to go, but I know you had different circumstances come up. So let's give it a shot in summer. And we did have kids who had F's in school. We cover summer school, which was good.  This year, with our new schedule, it's full year classes for a lot of subjects. So I will be doing outreach not so much in March, but more, you know, in June when grades are finalized. My hope is that with the full year long schedule, we will have a better idea of grades earlier.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: Possibly. But we'll see. We had 136 students invited to come to summer school to recover a total of 234 credits if my math was right when I was counting

[16049-50] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: I had a couple of questions. Okay. So, first of all, I see that 136 students were invited to. Will you describe the invited process?
TEXT> Sure.  I send emails.  To the parents and the children. Okay.  I send at least three reminder emails.  I will call as well if I feel like maybe the parent doesn't get the emails or something happened. But I that's how I do reach out because I. It's mainly through email.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. And so out of 136, students would have been eligible. How many kids participated?

[16049-65] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: Oh, yeah.
TEXT> And I'm not. I mean, I use that as an example, but I know there are a ton. You know, there are people. And I'm thinking, gosh, only half of those kids who are eligible participate. I'd really like to get.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: I would say the first, I mean, I think we had I missed the first few days. I was at power school University, but I had others covering for me,

[16049-82] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: Thinking about.
TEXT> That, that half the kids flunk algebra one. I mean, so I'm thinking, okay, all of those kids qualify for summer school. Well, most of them. And and so they wouldn't be going to five weeks of summer school. They would just be going until they pass the conference.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: Until they show competency. Right.

[16049-87] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: But what happened my week? Five of them, only.
TEXT> One stage for all five weeks. One teacher was not there.  He was. They were only there for the first two weeks because they had a family situation,  which Edmond was well aware of, and there was an additional teacher there who could help. So that was fine. And and the kids knew that as well.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I'm just wondering about the final week when there were only eight students.

[16049-89] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: I'm just wondering about the final week when there were only eight students.
TEXT> Everyone pitches in helps. I mean, you know, if it's a kid who like, again, I'm just going to pick English. Like it's really something in English. You know, when there's a teacher who might not have that many kids left, how can I help? What can I do? Because sometimes it's just a different face, kind of motivates the kids to do what they need to do. So everyone stays busy during the five weeks of summer school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. Okay.

[16049-115] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: So?
TEXT> So if they had breakfast, would they do even better if there are a lot of these kids were hungry.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: I mean, we again, we have a wide variety of snacks for them to eat. So we have.

[16049-124] Frank Sprague | Vice chair, Claremont School Board; chair of the Finance Committee; NH | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: And they do not graduate. They did not walk. They did not do anything. They come to summer school. They can recover their credit and they'll get their diploma afterwards.
TEXT> It seems like a pretty steep. Penalty. For messing. Up such a small portion. Of your high school career.  I just wonder if there's any way that we look at trying to give these kids a kick in the butt earlier on to get them moving to recover credit before it's lost, you know? So if you're reaching the end of the year, you know, you're you got a mountain. You dug yourself a hole that's really deep. Right. How can we get that kid to come after school to  maybe offer, you know, come after school. Do this, do this, do this so you can make it to walk across that stage.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: We I mean, this is a team in the office area. We we have those meetings about seniors on a regular basis, especially starting in the spring when senioritis hits.

[16049-126] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: have to end up coming. Where they are very aware. We tell them we had our first senior class meeting like the second week of school, and we told we very much laid out for them already. So they are all aware of the requirements.
TEXT> You may have mentioned this and I might have missed it. So thank you again for taking the time. And to clarify, because some of us are really old worries. Experience was different. What percentage of the student numbers decreasing? I understand once they show their competency, they no longer have to come. But did you have a percentage that were just through attrition? They just came and then they left.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: Like who didn't complete summer school?

[16049-131] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: But you continually reaching. Absolutely. Try to draw them back in.
TEXT> Yeah I, I kind of a parent of a kid has to leave early or if a kid is going to be out because of occasion or something, you know, I asked the parents to let me know that so I can let the teachers know so that we know those kids are not just not coming back. They have a reason for not being there. Like I said, we're very well. We have kids who are working during summer school. You know, they need to leave at 11 to get to work. That's fine. You know, they only have so much time to make stuff up, but that's fine. They need to go. That's fine. So we we I try very hard to work with families in summer school. To be as a company as we can be. And we also make sure all the teachers have IEPs and 500 fours. So we're also following all of those guidelines as well during summer school. Thank you. Yeah of course.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is there any other questions?

[16049-222] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: The visioning committee, we had a great presentation on two exciting new things.
TEXT> New things to add.  So, as you will recall, Monday night we had a joint meeting with the city council, and we talked about lots of good things. And  last night I attended the,  Text Center  open house for parents and students. And  I met the new career counselor, Jennifer. I'm not sure for the last name.  But she was there and  I talked to several of the staff, but the most one of the most one of two exciting things,  the director, Michelle Harrington, said to me, did you have a meeting yesterday with,  Brian Souter? And I said, well, yes, we did. And I gave her the background and she said, well, he called me this morning and he said he learned about what the tech center does, and he is involved with the bike shop, The wheelhouse. And they have a big race coming up October 19th, 20th,  with about 500 bikers coming into town for a two day race. And he wanted to know if the culinary arts program wanted to be the concessionaire for the food. And,  Michelle talked to the culinary arts director, and indeed, that's what they're going to do. And from 12 to 5 on Saturday and 12 to 5 on Sunday, non-school days, the kids and the teacher will be running the concession, and all the money that's generated will go back into the program.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And so I think I was delighted to hear that, because I saw that as a benefit, an immediate benefit to having the joint meeting on Monday night. The council

[16049-223] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: and indeed, that's what they're going to do. And from 12 to 5 on Saturday and 12 to 5 on Sunday, non-school days, the kids and the teacher will be running the concession, and all the money that's generated will go back into the program.
TEXT> And so I think I was delighted to hear that, because I saw that as a benefit, an immediate benefit to having the joint meeting on Monday night. The council was aware of of what was happening. And  and I think that's a great opportunity for our students, and it's a great opportunity for the community to see these students working. Right. The second thing is tomorrow morning at 830, micros is coming to the tech center.  Because of the nature of what micros does and what they manufacture, students can't go there. But micros  people are coming to the tech center to have demonstrations of various  parts of manufacturing,  some of the HR components, some of the manufacturing, some of the analysis of materials. And,  she said that they had 70 students sign up for this demonstration tomorrow from 830 to 1030. She said she contacted micros and said, gosh, we've got a lot more students signed up than originally planned. And they said, that's fine, we'll send more teachers. And so they're sending more presenters. So 70 kids are part of that  program tomorrow. So I was very excited about those two, two components of things.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah, I think we were all invited to the Microsoft.

[16049-243] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member; chair of the SAU 6 board; the board's r | 2024-10-02
PREV> Whitney Skillen: I don't know what you mean by that, Candy.
TEXT> Undertaking this responsibility on behalf of our work. I mean, there's a board meeting that Wednesday evening, though.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That would be fine. I think this would. I need I need for this to have. And I need the evidence of what occurs.

[16049-262] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member; chair of the SAU 6 board; the board's r | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: No.
TEXT> She's coming up here. Okay. Okay. Because I was thinking kind of mentioned this before with Home Depot, but really in that building. Wouldn't that be nice if there was a monitor when you walked into that North Street building? You know, volume off. What? Just a video of the kids. So because these are business people that come in there too.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So so I think what you're saying is the video, the video that Miss Harrington has created with the students. Yes. She created that for the purpose of generating interest

[16070-0] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> 
TEXT> 1135. October 16th, 2021 meeting of the Claremont School Board. With all right and yes. Yes. United States of America. And to prepare for which sins one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Miss Kronborg, would you please roll call for attendance? Yes, sir. Here. Here. On. Miles. Here. Here, here. I'm here. First order of business is the consent agenda.  All items on the consent agenda will be approved without discussion. Unless a motion is made to move a specific item to the regular agenda. Is there any wish to move any specific item to the regular agenda? Is there any objection to accepting the minutes of 10 to 24? Seeing no objection. We're going to  approve the all items on the consent agenda. Next item is citizens comments. Seeing no citizens. Other, well, citizens. But, no citizens that are going to comment right now. We'll move forward to the student board member report. We have  two new student members, which we're thrilled to have. Thank you so much for coming. We have Miles Sheehan and Lily Clark, and I don't know if both of you are planning to present or one this evening, but please proceed. Miles? Miles.
NEXT> Miles Sheehan: Yeah. So we just have a couple of, you know, things that have been going on around the school that talk to you about, starting with some activities. Stuff that's

[16070-3] Miles Sheehan | STUDENT BOARD MEMBER, Stevens High School - the chair introduces the t | 2024-10-16
PREV> Lily Clark: really well. They won multiple cups and football was actually doing really well to this season. We all thought it was going to be not so great because, there are some really tough schools, but all of our athletics are doing really well this year.
TEXT> Some more cool things that are going around going on around the school. Is our restorative justice program, which is I think it's been around for a while, but it's been kind of kicking into gear a lot more lately.  Mr. Pascucci,  restorative justice coordinator.  What he does is he takes time to unpack  behavioral problems throughout the cause of why the student is acting out. And he'll setting off conversations individually with all parties involved and gather information on what happened there, points of view or their emotions around what happened. And with this information in hand, he brings in his, the student panel, which is, new to the school, I'm pretty sure, and they're highly trained students. And they take the information collected by Mr. P, and then they facilitate, mediate a conversation with  all the parties involved in the what had ever had happened. And from there they were stored addresses. Coordinator Mr. P and student panel. And the students involved put together a document,  that just kind of says has like steps of success for the student, like how they can help themselves to, not act out like that again. And then at the end of the document, they have recommendations to the school and how the student can be held from others, like teachers to school professionals. So that they can, you know, further prevent more from happening.
NEXT> Lily Clark: And upcoming event that we're having at school is a mock election that's called invaded by NP, Mr. Simon. He wants us to learn about voting and, basically how things

[16070-16] Jennifer Gallagher | CITIZEN COMMENTER, Ward 1, Claremont - SELF-IDENTIFICATION: 'Hi, I'm J | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you for spending that stuff to ask. Absolutely. Looks like Mr. and Miss Gallagher may have missed the citizens comments. Can I is there any objection for citizens?
TEXT> Thank you. You were really speedy tonight. I'm really sorry that I missed citizens comments. Hi, I'm Jen Gallagher, Ward one. Great job on your report, guys. Excellent. So I'm happy I didn't miss that.  So I would love to be standing here to tell you about all of the great things that our district is doing. Well, but unfortunately, I'm here to represent some parents that are upset with how a problem was handled at our local elementary school. Sorry. A couple of days ago, there was an incident of fecal smearing in the a girls bathroom at our school, and,  some adults in the building thought that an appropriate response to that was to take all of the girl students because it was a girls bathroom and pulled them from academics or specials and have an assembly with them grades two through five, which I totally understand. Right. Talking presumably about health and safety issues. But,  students were really upset during that  interaction.  One of those students was my child who reported being extremely emotional and crying for several hours. Because she is conflict avoidant and respects authority tremendously and was very upset as a result of this action.  And then, the students were made to line up in the hallway outside of the bathroom in question and single singly, go observe the fecal matter smeared on the wall of the bathroom stall.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: So, admin did respond to my concern that I sent an email about it. I know that other upset parents did also send emails, and they also got a response.

[16070-28] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: Commerce video is that they reach out to us and they're doing one for the city. So they want to know we want to be part of that. And we'll we get, to give us a menu of things that we get out of it.
TEXT> It's kind of like a, a recruitment video that we'll get out of it. And but they were gracious enough to reach out to see if we wanted to be part of their video. And then being part of that, they'll give us our pieces so we can use them moving forward, recruiting for, future students and teachers. So  that's one thing that we've been working together with the, the city with, the big event we had was the joint meeting between Claremont Board and the City Council on September 30th. The school board and the city council held a joint meeting. This gathering was a effort to strengthen ties and mutual understanding. The focus was on educational funding and budgets, which, Mary Henry reviewed with  the City council, give them a better understanding of what school budgets are, what we have control of, what we don't  funded mandates, unfunded mandates, you know, all the stuff that the board deals with on a regular basis and community engagement  was aimed to and that was, I think, even greater part of that meeting. We really wanted to show that, members of the, of the city, that we are really trying to work hard to work with the city of Claymont together, and doing those best for the students in the community, but not not in isolation. We're really trying to improve those efforts. Myself and others have had a number of meetings with the mayor and the city manager.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I think they've been going very well. They followed up with the city manager, and we're going to set up monthly meetings, the two of us, just to keep the

[16070-29] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: work with the city of Claymont together, and doing those best for the students in the community, but not not in isolation. We're really trying to improve those efforts. Myself and others have had a number of meetings with the mayor and the city manager.
TEXT> I think they've been going very well. They followed up with the city manager, and we're going to set up monthly meetings, the two of us, just to keep the conversations going, just to establish a better working relationship and just keep each other abreast of what's going on and if they need anything from us. So we need anything from them that we're kind of trying to share resources, whether it's just coming together and talking about things or actual, Community outreach survey. So this here is, with the new Parent Square website that, you know, will slowly launch in out. It's been good because instead of the current website where if people want the information, they have to come to our website now with the new one, we have the opportunity to to push it out. And so we have  pushing out things slowly based on the different  tools we have in there just to see how it's working. And so one of the. And one of the new features in there is that we can give quick, little quick surveys to get the pulse of the community. So I started off with the first question with what qualities do parents value most in their child's education? And the second was how satisfied are parents with the overall quality of their child? Is receiving a C six?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: In my report you can actually see the results. The most recent one, the qualities do parents value most in the child's education? It's it's interesting what what the results

[16070-30] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: get the pulse of the community. So I started off with the first question with what qualities do parents value most in their child's education? And the second was how satisfied are parents with the overall quality of their child? Is receiving a C six?
TEXT> In my report you can actually see the results.  The most recent one, the qualities do parents value most in the child's education? It's it's interesting what what the results were with that. You know I and I think that's the important piece is that we're not just guessing where parents and the community members we want. We should focus our time. We're actually getting participants, participants sharing that. Well, it's in the report you can take you can take a look at that.  So based on, you know, surveys and stuff, you know, I continue to find ways to involve the, the community, whether it's parents or constituents. And so,  a couple of weeks ago,  I announced the creation of a superintendents community outreach committee, which begins with stop beginning work on hopefully,  after the new year. And we'll start off first meeting every other month. And if we need to, we can push it. I didn't want it to be a huge time commitment. I wanted it to be an opportunity  for people who are interested to have time to meet with me based on current things we're trying to do, get their feedback on, you know, anything that we need feedback on as educators of the community.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And so, I put out any parents anyone's interested. So right now I'm up to over 20 people who are interested. Optimal size of the committee. I would like to

[16070-32] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: for the public, that's our working document, that's our map, that's what's going to help us make the decisions, whether it's building our budget around the strategic plan, coming up with PD coming up, you know, it's a transparent way to say to the community.
TEXT> This is what we're doing moving forward over the next five years. See you in regards to education.  So that will be coming out shortly to everybody.  Some of the safety initiatives. We have the security locks at the Sussex office with cameras and buzzers. So if people just can't walk in and, you know, it can be controlled from,  whether it's my assistance desk or the front desk, so people just can't walk in at any point now. And it's something that was concerned me from the very beginning. I feel the SEO office should be just as secure as the schools.  Because we do get, you know, quite a bit of foot traffic. So,  we also have new radios for our schools in the district, funded by the Safe grant to improve communication during emergencies. These changes have got the district's commitment to student safety. And with the. We had a good opportunity to test them yesterday because our internet was down for most of the day as well as the telephones. So we're able to use those radios to communicate back and forth. And if there were any bugs we can, we have time to work those out. So it was a good opportunity for us yesterday, even though, but behind quickly without having internet, it was a, it was a good way for to see how the radios work, but also say how prepared are we if the internet ever did go down?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Well, we had a cyber breach where we had to shut things down. Can we still function? And so it was a good practice for all of us. I know

[16070-38] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - DIRECT ADDRESS: policy | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: So we're like this is your arrow.
TEXT> And 7% of our kids are functioning in fifth grade level. It's like a pretext. It's like a priestess. And so we'll do this test again in the winter and spring test. And just for comparison. So we've never published over the fall. That's it. Yeah it's fine, but last spring, when we were all around the 50% in reading and math across all the trees, so we expect we'll end up that same point or better this spring. But right now we're testing students on what they should know in May but haven't been talking about it. And so you'll you'll notice in the early grades, kindergarten has come in and already read, oh, 74% or whatever. So in the young grades they score really well. As they get older, there's more to take in over the course of the school year and the school board, it does feel a little shocking. It should be a little test for something.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: What is that math that.

[16070-58] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, and CHAIR of the Finance Committee | 2024-10-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: heard some comments, back, I've gotten feedback on the September 30th, meeting with the city council and people, community members watch that. And they thought that you did a good job explaining the various issues. Related to funding. So that was helpful. That was helpful.
TEXT> So, this is for Chris, but he's engaged, so I'm just going to I'll just ask out loud. Anyway, so I was looking at the push out poll, the poll results community poll. And I'm wondering, is that fuel for the, strategic plan for. And I also am curious, like I was just read this, what qualities do you value most in your child's education? And, academic excellence? It was 28%, but character development was 46%.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yes.

[16070-75] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And I found the student, reflection on the restorative justice, on the scheduling. It really indicates that they're thoughtful young adults who are reflecting and articulating what their environment is. It was very impressive. I thought.
TEXT> Yeah, they were very impressive. And I think, you know, Michael, really agree that that's pretty much the population of the students we get there. That's those are the students we see. So public might be here one thing. But when they're in the building with us, you know, those are the type of, you know, students that, you know, we're we're working with and they shine tonight.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah.

[16070-97] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: Oh, yeah.
TEXT> Back to school day.  And so he was like, hey, anytime you want to come up, I was like, let's get it started. So we went to the Golden Cross. Then I met with the subcommittee.  Then we went to this New Hampshire construction day. If you're going to look at the slideshow, that's the one you want to look at. We went up to this New Hampshire construction day. Kids got to go in bulldozers and just drive all of this heavy duty equipment. They had challenges where you had to, like, take a backhoe, hook a ring on a cone, drive it around. And the kids, at first they were like, I'm not doing that. And then one of their friends did it and they all were in line to do it. They got to climb, be like a lineman, climb up the harness, climb up on this giant line. And this this was in New Boston? Yep.  And it was there was over 900 students that went to this event, and I think over 200 vendors. So we just went in. You know, we kind of just I got a lot of pan flits.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: A lot of people were like, hey, we'll come to schools. But I let the students kind of talk. And then when they when they were done, I was like,

[16070-106] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: of that facility. And they actually were trying on, like glasses or they had like, headphones on. So it was like they were hard to see, just kind of like what it is like when you were getting older of how to navigate certain things.
TEXT> So the class was kind of like practicing how, you know, how it would be with all this really cool technology. And then do you want me to keep going or is it okay? All right. So then we did,  a student of the month. So what I did was I thought of, you know,  I'm a big sports person, and you see athlete of the week or this, you know, so I'm like, let's do a student of the month in each, in each, you know, CTE class. So the teachers kind of thought of the kid that would be that the student of the month. And then we kind of raised it a little bit more.  So that they get a certificate there on the board when you walk in.  And then they're going to a breakfast that,  two of their family members can come. It can be neighbor, relative, whoever, you know, whoever you want. And then we're hoping if you guys would like to come, you're more than welcome to come. Maybe even present the award, you know, to kind of bring in that community,  involvement. But the board is when you first walk into the tech center,  the building construction class built the board built it.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: So the kids are on there has like, and then, a manual machine tooling actually did like 3D printing of each kid's name on it so that they get to

[16070-107] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: like to come, you're more than welcome to come. Maybe even present the award, you know, to kind of bring in that community, involvement. But the board is when you first walk into the tech center, the building construction class built the board built it.
TEXT> So the kids are on there has like, and then,  a manual  machine tooling actually did like 3D printing of each kid's name on it so that they get to take that little name plaque home. So it's kind of just building all of these programs to showcase in the front. And then,  the Claremont Ride Along program, there's we're really kind of seeing if fire safety would be a good CTE program here. So we're kind of just getting our feet wet with the ride along program. And  we met with the chief. It took a few minutes because we had to get this waiver signed and make sure everything's kind of like on the back end. So we got all that set. We met with the student today. He's going to go there November 4th. And kind of we're not sure if he's going to do a full day or half a day, kind of  to just be that first student, to just kind of see what it's like, you know, just to be on the fire department.  And then the workforce development team, we're meeting with them at the end of the month.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: But Tom Rock said he would meet with us before to kind of just have a good, to kind of know what we're doing. And then, culinary wanted me to

[16070-117] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: I have it on my computer.
TEXT> Yep. And then so these are the student of the first student of the month. And, we kind of talked with the teachers of how we were going to present this, you know, do we quietly tell them, how do we do it? You know, to really kind of have that impact. And if you know me, we're going to go big. And so we just kind of went into the class and each teacher kind of wrote, you know, why? Why they're the student of the month. And I just read it. The class was clap. And you would think some of these students like actually all of them one like $1 million. They just were shocked, excited, you know, and we didn't know high school kids. They could be embarrassed. They could not care, you know. But all of them were like me. Like I'm the first one.  And this is Alex down here. And he actually helped make the student of the month board. And the teacher and I were joking because we're like, this is the first student another month and they have no clue.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: But they're kind of taking some pride in in the student of the month board. And then this is what the board looks like. So this is kind of hard

[16070-119] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: to all the staff members in the whole district. And then just kind of scroll down. And then so this is, you know, just so that the tech center is kind of on the map, they're seeing it, they're going on and then it's there.
TEXT> And then one other thing I don't think I put in there is we met with the middle school in the beginning, and they were going to come over and just kind of see the medical assistant class just because it kind of worked with their health class.  But then we got a new career counselor, and we were like, let's just make this bigger. So she's going to we met with the middle school and we said, like, hey, what can we do to get these kids, you know, to see the tech center? Because when you're looking at the course, you know the course description and you see basic home repair, you have no idea what that is, you know? But when you see, well, I can make a go kart in this class, that's, that's going to get kids excited to kind of be here. And we're going to get the kids that want to be in these classes, in the intro classes. Then they go to the level ones and then they're complete, you know, of the whole of the whole program. And then hold on one second. I just got to go. So a lot of people have said, like, what have you been doing?
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: You know, with the report. So on here is just kind of what I've the report is just kind of like it goes along with my vision very well. So

[16070-122] Candace Crawford | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2 | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford. And then, Mr..
TEXT> Patrick, you you cannot understand how happy I am. You cannot, but I am  I'm thrilled. And I know the community is to,  I want to say I was lucky enough to come to the open house, and I happened to come in when the student of the month came in with his mother, and he was showing her his name on the board, and the two of them were just beaming and and I was so glad I came in because they could show me their name. You know, the mother was happy and the kid was so happy. Yeah. It was just a really nice moment.  One question I have you talked about,  some field trip that's going to cost $50 per student. Yeah. And and it's limited to the students themselves. Have to come up with a $50.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: No. So we do a lot of fundraising like we're calling like at the say the Arrowhead will raise money or they sell Christmas trees at the you know, in

[16070-146] Arlene Hawkins | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER; also CHAIR of the SAU 6 joint board and | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: Well thank you.
TEXT> And it's very much appreciated. I was at the Mike Rose session, and what struck me was the interaction between the students and the people from micros. They understood where kids are at at this point in their life and addressed it. And it was you could see that the kids were the students were,  oh, I get it now. And it was it was an alignment to go. The second point is the question. You mentioned the program advisory committee. Could you just very quickly elaborate on exactly what that is?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Because.

[16070-544] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, and CHAIR of the Finance Committee | 2024-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: that happens in the district, the, the administration does. And so I don't one of the things I don't want to do is commingle both types of communication into one document. So what I did was I was thinking in terms of what are we?
TEXT> What are we as the board, what are we communicating about? And so we communicate about the budget. We communicate about policy. We communicate about student achievement. We communicate about committee work. We communicate school board goals,  administrative arrangements, which would be like the new schedule at the high schools and administrative arrangement. We'd be communicating on that. Possibly superintendent evaluation would be something we would communicate about, but I don't know what else. Before I go too far into the weeds, what else is there that we communicate that the board communicates to the community about? And so I didn't want to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Take it without knowing where it was going.

[16070-547] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. I just didn't want to get into off into the little rabbit holes without coming to the board and saying, what do you think?
TEXT> I recall that not this retreat, but the year before, one of our school board goals was to acknowledge student recognition or, I don't recall the exact wording, but it was acknowledging student performance, student recognition growth. Having what growth? Student. It's not just student achievement. Academic achievement.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: No. Right.

[16070-550] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: So student recognition.
TEXT> Recognition was one of the goals. And as I was reading through this, the the piece that always comes back to me when I think about communication, we've had reports here from,  members of our educational community about students being voted governor at the in Concord for the student government, days that they were there. There was another instance where another student was recognized for  accolades and they came before the board, which I think is wonderful because I believe as a board, we should recognize those positive things happening in our community. And then at the time we said, well, how do we get the word out that this is happening? And even tonight, hearing the student of the month from the the the tech center, we were invited to possibly go and actually present the student, you know, and I don't I'm not saying that's, but just so the community understands that there are a lot of good things happening, that our students are being recognized and are coming to the board, or we are learning about it. It's televised.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And we've given recognition also to some of our athletic teams and other organizations from time to time that have that have performed well. And so maybe there is a

[16070-631] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Whitney Skillen: the issue and how this might relieve any, anything that's happening. So, yeah, I agree with Mr. Peterson that I support your decision and that you know what's best. And I also really think that the the school staff deserve a little extra love. So.
TEXT> Is there anyone who would like to speak against this? I think we're unanimously in support of showing our educators and our staff how much they are appreciated. And, what a burden they're caring for for us and the kids. So thank you.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Thank you very much. And for the teachers, I think we'll go a long way. We're able to show that we do care about them, and we'll do what we

[16155-7] Unidentified | TWO VOICES IN ONE SEGMENT, not separable - the Director of Human Resou | 2024-11-19
PREV> Mary Henry: Mary Henry, business administrator.
TEXT> Baxter Hearn, director of human resources. Michael.  Yeah, one of my students every year.
NEXT> Chelsea Weatherford: Chelsea Weatherford, executive assistant to the superintendent.

[16155-24] Michelle Herrington | Self-identifies at [002]: 'I'm Michelle Harrington, the assistant dire | 2024-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. I just have two conceptual questions. Number one. The med tech, whatever. It's great name. We'll let go to a two year program next year. Yes. And so there will be additional cost to go to that second year of.
TEXT> Yeah. So there's a good thing to because the level ones  when we bought the curriculum it's for the student. So if the student and it's a little expensive for the student because it's a two year curriculum with them. So if I'm in level one, I get the curriculum in level two and I get to take the exam.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So so you can already purchase. What I hear you saying is you've already purchased the level two curriculum. Yes. Even though the the program is expanding, many of the

[16155-120] Frank Romeo | Self-identifies at [004] as 'Frank Miller, principal, Claremont Middle | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: So as a teacher, how many kids a day am I seeing?
TEXT> Are you will see over four. You can see 24, 60, 80 kids. Plus you'll have a saw group, which is a sort of a callback  in which you do some small instruction with your kids. And so it'll get those kids back. You'll get a different group each day, but through the course of the day, you're seeing only 40, 60, 80 plus kids.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Is that an average number or maximum or minimum?

[16155-168] Melissa Lewis | MERGED CLUSTER - Melissa Lewis is the default and CANDACE CRAWFORD is  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> So above and beyond  kind of that normal inflation piece that you were talking about. And I think you all are well versed in this. You know that at the elementary level, the number of lines we control is drastically smaller. Yeah. And they're in the form of a supply line of an equipment line or an equipment repair line or DOS and fee, something along that line. So for me,  the biggest addition would be a second,  permanent substitute. In the building. That is a gift. There's no other way to say that, because that guarantees that I'm at least able to cover one classroom. So, for example, today I have three classroom teachers out. That person automatically takes one of them. And then unfortunately, we're at the point where it's paraprofessionals covering. They do an amazing job. That's not the part. The part is that it then takes them away from the kids with whom they should be working.  So we would like to add a second,  position. It's a wonderful position, for example, for a parent.  And  that has been again, just a gift  for us. Above and beyond that, you'll see maybe just the addition of some lines that I've been working with Marion, and it's really cleaning up things that kind of should have their own line that have maybe been in somewhere else.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: This one, however, is new. For example, we are putting in a building PD line and we'll have a couple thousand dollars in it. So for example, if we as

[16155-169] Melissa Lewis | MERGED CLUSTER - Melissa Lewis is the default and CANDACE CRAWFORD is  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Melissa Lewis: just a gift for us. Above and beyond that, you'll see maybe just the addition of some lines that I've been working with Marion, and it's really cleaning up things that kind of should have their own line that have maybe been in somewhere else.
TEXT> This one, however, is new. For example, we are putting in a building PD line and we'll have a couple thousand dollars in it. So for example, if we as a school want to talk about a particular topic, as Frank said sometimes or alluded to, there's just some things that are specific to your school. For example,  Mike, with with the behavior piece. Same thing at the elementary level. And so we just would like a small pocket of funds so that we could focus on something that is outside of the district realm  of where the district is headed with PD aligns to it, of course, but is specific to our school, our kids, our staff. So we'll ask for the addition of that with just a few a couple thousand dollars in there. And then like I said, you'll see some adjustments of just cleaning some up. So, for example, our postage line tends to go in the red because the leasing fees are taken out. And so we'd like to add the leasing fee line and just make postage pure postage. Those that kind of clean up. The other large piece you'd see is in the area of library.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Our media generalist or media specialist at Maple Avenue oversees the two library paraprofessionals at both Disney and Maple, and they have worked together on a proposal to increase the

