[12399-119] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Nicole Boynton: Patty has the best woohoo voice there is. It's a she loves it. She loves. It's another way again that she supports our school in so many different ways. Now, Mrs. Duchesne was not able to do the moves today, so we had a guest.
TEXT> Woohoo! And we don't reveal who that is. And we have the kids have to figure it out. It is a phenomenal way to start your day.  On the academic side, we have our grade level weekly meetings or weekly meetings for some teams. And again, we're always talking about what our data looks like, where kids at with this particular skill, what can we do differently with their grouping? What other supports do they need? In addition to that, Nicole chairs our Student Assistance team, which again gathers,  any any student that there's a concern facing that child family can refer to that team. Teachers can refer to that team. A student could even say, hey, I need some support and we would involve that team. And again, it's just another think tank about, you know, what do you need and how can we support you. So open house take one. So we we had an outdoor open house. We recognize that that's such an important part for our families.  We wanted to make sure that we gave them every opportunity we could to meet their child's teacher and learn as much as they could. So we held an outdoor  open house for our first go round Veterans Day gathering.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Again, just trying to rebuild that sense of community while also trying to be Covid sensitive. We tried to do as much outside as possible. So we're gathered here in

[12399-126] Nicole Boynton | Student services coordinator, Disnard Elementary School (medium - intr | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: right is really just a screenshot. It's a video. And if I had access to the rights to the music, I would have played it for you, but I don't. So that's a big no no. But thanks to Nicole, this happened. I will let.
TEXT> Her share that. It was just I had had was searching for some fun songs or chants that we could do for the kiddos.  And I came across another group of teachers who had taken the song All About That Bass by Meghan Trainor and turned it all about that test. And so they had rewritten it.  And so we borrowed their song, and we had some staff members who volunteered to get up on stage and do some singing along with the song, and the kids absolutely loved it.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: It was it was pretty awesome. Microphone. Yes. Happened to wander across the practice that morning. Wasn't planning to be in on it, but and she really didn't have a

[12399-127] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Nicole Boynton: turned it all about that test. And so they had rewritten it. And so we borrowed their song, and we had some staff members who volunteered to get up on stage and do some singing along with the song, and the kids absolutely loved it.
TEXT> It was it was pretty awesome. Microphone. Yes. Happened to wander across the practice that morning. Wasn't planning to be in on it, but and she really didn't have a choose volunteered at that point. And so she again the kids had so much fun. The laughter in our gymnasium and the excitement that they had was just phenomenal. On the left, you'll see one of those buddy classrooms visiting  and they came through with signs, motivation, you know, motivational sayings and things. We've had classes get together for popsicles outside just so youngers can say, hey, you're doing a really good job. Pretty special time for a time that isn't always fun for kiddos. And then we have some pictures of you for you. Just of some great learning in action.  You know, we have a lot of technology being integrated. We have a lot of Stem occurring. On the on the left, you'll see we have some first graders who had designed some leprechaun traps because the silly leprechauns come every year in one of these years, they're going to catch one.  And the leprechauns do do a little bit of  redecorating, let's say, in classrooms, so that the kids know they've been there. But they had to really do some thinking about designing their trap and the elements and why those were important.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: We have some robot building in fourth grade. At the bottom here we have some bottle bottle biographies, and our fourth graders had to write as part of their writing

[12399-129] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: second open house was there, wasn't there? I'm not going to lie, it was so exciting to have people back in the building. So right after you gave us the go ahead, I think within three weeks or so, we held an in-person open house.
TEXT> We split it into two again, just to be mindful of people's feelings  about being in large groups. And Nicole and I were at the door greeting families. And in all honesty, it was so much fun I forgot to take pictures. So it was just that parents were excited to be in the building. Kids were so excited to to be able to bring their families into the school. And so I forgot. And the last thing I can't say enough about this group of people. And unfortunately, there's a couple of them not in the picture. All of the things that I just talked about would not be possible without them. And so a huge thanks to  we had community members, we had school board members, we had parents reach out to these folks during Staff Appreciation Week and just share their appreciation for all that teachers and staff do for our students every single day, and continue to do so. None of this would be possible without this group of folks, so a huge thanks to them. They're an amazing group. Any questions we can answer for you? All right. Thanks for letting.
NEXT> Unidentified: Us share.

[12399-138] Unidentified | Unidentified - Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School (presents Map | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: are so fun. And it's so creative. The way they approach learning our title one rock star, Mrs. Herzog, brings to us a wealth of information on the science of reading, works with kids all day long, and presents learning in many different multi-sensory ways.
TEXT> Moving into PE is in a snap. Continuing in the snapshot of our school, we've got students learning gross motor skills, the ready physician and stepping off at the foot and and really breaking down the skills necessary for something simple like that. We think as simple as coming about in music class, something good that's come from Covid technology and music. The students are learning how to do much more of it,  individually and  with some better assessments. Thanks to thanks to Covid that created some of these programs. Library we're challenging  and making kids pledge to try to read this summer. Try and get some books in their hands.  And this was just some pictures from earlier this week of kids making dinosaurs. Our visual arts are alive and well. We had a big night a few weeks ago, at our Maple Has Smarts night. It was our literacy night and our, art show. Getting into events. The. We had our open house, our open air open house. In October. There were hundreds of people roaming our back parking lot. It was so great to see happy faces. It was the first time people had gotten together and smiled at each other and actually had conversations in years. And everyone was able to breathe a little bit and it was so nice to see.
NEXT> Unidentified: We then had our Halloween parade. We were visited by Juke and Sam over there. Who made his rounds with the red to the kindergartners? And took a parade all

[12399-147] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [48-63] an | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: It's nice to see people who love their jobs. And obviously everyone here does.
TEXT> All right. I think it's also weird. You know, we can get back to normal. We did this the first two with having the kids come in every now and then. They would love to actually present and get them in and out, particularly by grade level. I think it is wonderful. There's amazing things going on every day.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you all. Any I see no further comments or questions so we will move on. Thank you.

[12399-162] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: What's the max capacity?
TEXT> We we tend to, you know, I've given the direction that the capacity should stay right around seven or 7 or 8, given the size of the classroom, given the given the needs of the student. So, you know, one year you could have capacity at ten, perhaps, depending on the dynamic of the kids. One year it might be lower. Something along those lines.  The autism program right now has  two two students, both of which came back to us from Inspire School for Autism in Brattleboro.  That was really the the prime focus there, as we recognized that these two students were ready to come back if we had adequate programing. And so we were able to bring them back. In the spring of 2021. And then just recently in the past  weeks, we have accepted a tuition student from unity into that program as well. So what I, what I did here was I include I tallied this as 17 total students,  currently being served with the capacity to serve more students without adding without adding additional staff. So  just the quick breakdown on the right hand side here.
NEXT> Ben Nester: The total operational costs for all three programs, right around 686,000. That includes staffing and supplies. Then I the second second row down there, I included, excuse me, I'm just

[12399-167] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1], answers  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Ben Nester: know, long and short of it, you know, my recommendation is that we continue to to operate the programs from a financial perspective. I think it it does result in some, you know, in some savings for the for the district and the taxpayer. So.
TEXT> So I was on the board when this first came about.  And we always knew, I think, that this was going to be a cost of ordnance and not a, not a revenue source. So, I mean, this is to me, as expected, not just cost of voice, but avoidance of shipping kids our, you know what, 45 hour and a half each way, you know, during the day. So imagine being a kid that has behavior issues, autism, different, you know, abilities or disabilities, and having to sit on a bus or in a van to travel so far to just at the start of your day in the at the end of your day. So not just cost avoidance. You you're keeping these kids close to home, to family, to, to teachers or instructors that would know them from year to year and, you know, follow them there. So I think in my opinion, these have been really beneficial programs as far as cost of audience and as far as keeping our kids close to home where they need to be. So I got Frank and then Steve.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So we, we, our last meeting, we've we got a letter from Jane Bergeron in the context of that was front of the court, legislation. So as I look at

[12399-170] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I got Frank and then Steve' [43 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Ben Nester: cases, we've not we've not fought that from a legal perspective. We've, you know, we've allowed allowed the team to make the decision and allowed the parent to, you know, make their voice heard. And they can obviously refuse to consent to whatever we propose.
TEXT> Wouldn't they have to have evidence that the program, our present, our program lacks something that their kid needs to do that?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah. Yeah, I mean that, you know, parents that are that are. You know, certain parents have may have strong feelings or had a very positive experience or not a

[12399-175] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Stephen.' [442] and ' | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: Stephen.
TEXT> So I actually kind of want to piggyback off of that a little bit because the taxpayers of Claremont are responsible for providing said education. And just because a parent doesn't like what we are providing a service for, we shouldn't just lay down and continue to cost taxpayers tuition.  So my hope would be that the administrative team would fight that because it's not fair to the taxpayer, to be quite honest. They it just that isn't what the system is designed to do. That isn't what the tax dollars designed to do. And I understand that it can be a headache. But at the same token, if we're providing the service and that students ready to be in our district, their local tax dollars are for us, not for us to continue to transport their child at our dime. If they want to do it, then write the check.  But going back to this other piece, it's actually another tuition based piece. When we did the total cost savings. And I understand you, you've missed the the cost of the students. Yeah. I just want to verify that we're not operating at a loss on those students to be tuition students.
NEXT> Ben Nester: No. If I, if I understand your correct your question correct, Steve. We're we're billing we're billing fall mountain for each of those two students to the tune of anywhere

[12399-185] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Just what happens to kids when they get into the middle school?
TEXT> We have a life skills program at the middle school run by one of our teachers, Sam Bailey. So many of our students, as an example, like in the elementary autism program, they will be able to be served in that life skills program. It's not called an autism program, but we serve students with a variety of disabilities. The the black hole that exists is behavior programing at the middle school level. And we we we worked we worked hard to revamp the middle school behavior program this past year, but we,  lost a teacher,  over the course of the school year and, and struggled to really implement it with the vision we had for it. So we're attempting to hire that position right now for next year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is our audit district for middle school. It's 3 or 400,000, isn't it? Something like that. If memory serves, I'm trying to think of what it was in the budget

[12399-196] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: programs mission was to reduce the need for services moving forward, and that we would see a positive impact. Fully, I know this was a hard number of years to kind of that, but what's your sense there? Are we meeting that metric or you?
TEXT> Yes, yes. In the interest of sharing good news tonight,  not every kiddo that goes through the pride program will be ready to transition out into a typical classroom. Many of these kids will need some type of heavy duty programing for the duration, but  there has been several kids I want to say between 3 and 5 kids over the last three years that have been able to go back to mainstream after receiving services there. And, you know, and I credit that to the staff that work in the program. Sherry McDaniel Thomas has worked, you know, to to help get that off the ground. So, yeah, it's it's it's been nice to see that.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Anything further? Thank you. Sure. Item number four is on mobile. Summit distribution donation.

[12399-203] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair asked 'Richard' to  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Richard Seaman: bring it forward. I didn't get any feel. I don't have any feel as to the possibility of that coming through. We're not planning for it. None of the schools that I'm aware of are planning for it, nor are the food management service companies.
TEXT> So beginning next year, we'll be back to how we had done food service in the past, which is those that are free and reduced, of course, will continue assuming that they submit  the necessary information to be qualified for. This will have free or reduced costs on their lunches, and  those that do not, and still want to have one of our meals will be paying for the meals. It's an interesting one other interesting piece that we picked up in the course of this. It was it was presented as the as the 68 hour period. We have a 68 hour period, which I believe goes from lunchtime on Friday till breakfast time on Monday morning. We're more than a fair share of our students. Do not eat between those two days or between those two times, so they get fed in school at lunch on Friday and they come in. They most likely have not eaten. Until they get fed again on Monday morning. So meals within our systems, meals within our society in general, our  for their at risk students that we have is just a huge, huge challenge.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: How many students are there that are not fed during the weekend?

[12399-205] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair asked 'Richard' to  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Bonnie Miles: How many students are there that are not fed during the weekend?
TEXT> We really don't know the answer to that. All we know are the kids had come in on Monday and say, can I get two breakfast please? And we have we're finding ways, even though we can only in effect submit for one, that if we can have an extra breakfast for them or extra food for them, we find a way to do it. We find a way with fresh fruit and vegetable programs, and if we don't need them during the program, they're available for a snack. We're looking at the possibility of doing suppers in our schools that can also be a part of the program, so we're trying to find anything we can to perpetuate what we've had here, which is really strong participation in taking meals during while it was free and trying to continue it. Going for my program to recover the caps.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: I remember hearing about a program where the students took a backpack home with food for the weekend. Was that from the school or.

[12399-241] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1], answers  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Richard Seaman: It'll go on in the count.
TEXT> They would contact me and say, hey, your kid charge. And I could say, well, I'm not going to pay or I will go. So that's where the debt comes in, is that those those kids that charge your meal and then the parents don't and they.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Don't qualify for free lunches.

[12399-249] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1], answers  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Bonnie Miles: Somebody should do about that security.
TEXT> It's hard because as we as many people know, there are resources there that maybe these kids and families could get involved over the weekend.  If they if people are taking the initiative to use the resources. So that's the problem as well. Is that one the stigma of it, I mean, the stigma of going to the soup kitchen to get a meal is still there. And to maybe some the responsibility of the parents have to an adult has to do that.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So and we could have a conversation on this that we're willing to commit X amount of dollars to this specific need, whether it be during vacation time or some

[12399-252] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair asked 'Richard' to  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Bonnie Miles: There must be some school social workers like Courtney Porter probably knows some of these families who are really in need of this. Yeah.
TEXT> More of the kids, more the kids. She'll know the kids that are really? Yeah.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Stevens.

[12400-24] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [34-50] an | 2022-05-19
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Superintendent report is is  is pretty straightforward. I  have a on a front page. I have a few slides from  unity and from around the district. The unity one in particular.  For those of you and  that were last night here at the meeting, you see some of the elementary slides, and you just had the elementary update that we focused on when the principals presented. There's,  me with the mascot take, you know, at bluff. The, the,  orange  smallmouth bass that you see in the lower right is  not only the closest I've come to a fish lately, but was brought to unity by  by Bob McDevitt, who was the artist in residence. If you look in residence, if you look at last week, if you look at all the fish  that are laid out on in the art room  there, they did art prints with with fish. And it was really neat to see,  and it was just, it was a, it was, really fun. The kids were excited. They explained all of them. And he made it a  print from the actual clay fish. They're not real fish. I saw that so that you're proud there? Yeah. It was. Yeah, but but they were having a good time with it. And each kid could explain the species in how they made.
NEXT> Unidentified: It fresh.

[13420-57] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: on. We do not have a student rep tonight due to being the last week of school and finals week. So she she hopefully is home studying. So we are under our discussion and action items. Discussion. I remember one, the Claremont district data presentation.
TEXT> Okay. So everyone has a pack in front of them and she's school. So our high school, SAT scores on a five year average. Some things to note about the SAT scores. As you may know that in New Hampshire, they are mandatory for all students to take. That includes all populations. So, if you are looking for any sort of  national comparison to averages for SAT scores,  you might look at these and  find them a little bit alarming at first.  Because we are having students test within the school day,  and again, all students versus students who are opting to test. And of course, the trends over the last few years  nationally as colleges are now making  admissions test optional, in many cases, a lot of kids are not opting to test. So what you're going to see is a rise in the national SAT scores. But maybe not in New Hampshire.  So looking at  the five year average. One of the things to consider  is that this is something that happens in March and March of junior year, which is rather early for students because we're looking at particularly for the math piece of it.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: We're looking at, skills that that are often go all the way up to pre-calculus. And students sometimes have not encountered pre calc until senior year. So essentially being tested

[13420-66] Mimi | Stevens High School guidance counselor; Ward 1 resident (presenter: 'G | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: Thought, oh, no.
TEXT> Not this is not why I'm here. Sorry, guys. You're you're for the food services.  So we don't necessarily know who we should track for. And also, like Mary Ellen said, a lot of kids aren't taking SATs again if they don't have to, because a lot of schools are test optional right now.  Because of the pandemic, I think that's the term are going to see continue. So very few kids I think are retaking them if they don't have to. You know what I mean? Some kids do. Absolutely. We have kids who are going to schools that need the scores. And the kids kind of view the one in March as a practice for the one they're going to take after junior year. But I would say the majority of our students do not take it again.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And is there any way we can capture those kids that are normally excluded from so we can see what our traditional students are versus? And if not, what can

[13420-67] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (addressed as Heather by the guidanc | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mimi: are going to schools that need the scores. And the kids kind of view the one in March as a practice for the one they're going to take after junior year. But I would say the majority of our students do not take it again.
TEXT> And is there any way we can capture those kids that are normally excluded from so we can see what our traditional students are versus? And if not, what can we do to get that parsed out?
NEXT> Mimi: I don't know what you mean by traditional.

[13420-69] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mimi: I don't know what you mean by traditional.
TEXT> So I think, Heather, just  if I understand what you're getting at is a way to see how our students who would be comparing nationally as students, would be inclined to take it to go to college.
NEXT> Mimi: Okay. So like the kids who retake it in the fall.

[13420-70] Mimi | Stevens High School guidance counselor; Ward 1 resident (presenter: 'G | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: So I think, Heather, just if I understand what you're getting at is a way to see how our students who would be comparing nationally as students, would be inclined to take it to go to college.
TEXT> Okay. So like the kids who retake it in the fall.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well, well.

[13420-79] Mimi | Stevens High School guidance counselor; Ward 1 resident (presenter: 'G | 2022-06-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's hard for us to use this as.
TEXT> Yeah, we can definitely blue with the data and kind of look at our students who, you know, are on the 27 diploma track, who we know are going to the four year schools or are kind of gearing towards going to four year schools and kind of pull their scores out for you guys. Absolutely. I think that's the thing we can definitely do. I don't know if we can do it like immediately, but something we can work on.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is that a useful thing or not really.

[13420-81] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is that a useful thing or not really.
TEXT> To see where we are nationally? Yes and no. Depending on the trend on how what's going to happen with SAT scores. And we are in such a a rapid trend towards moving away from the testing for admissions. Will it swing back? Crystal ball. Right.  But you know, I was presenting at unity last night, and I said to them, you know, I have three kids of my own who one has just finished,  his first year cadet at at the Air Force Academy. He applied to and got into West Point and Naval Academy as well, with no SAT scores. I mean, the kid hit the grand slam with no S.A.T.. He never took the test.  And the two that just I know, right. And the two that just graduated who were off to college this fall. Both of them. Neither one of of the girls took Saturday, either. They the kids are kind of that trend is like, well, we don't need it. A lot of schools said no. Will that change as as the pandemic settles down and schools maybe get back to being a little bit more demanding of what we're getting for entrances? You know.
NEXT> Mimi: I don't think for this fall will change as much, but I think maybe a year from now, you know, when the our current sophomore class, when they're looking at

[13420-92] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Steven.' [2], [52], [ | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: Yeah that's all I have.
TEXT> So I guess my question is kind of geared towards if if we know that we're doing it junior year every year, wouldn't it behooves us to schedule more of those core classes through your earlier years and kind of make senior year kind of more a little bit the elective classes? Because to me, it's it seems like we're not doing justice to our students. I mean, we don't want to grind them down and board them with all core classes, but it just seems to me that we're not striking the iron where it needs to be. As far as getting this done in a in a fashion to get these scores up.  Because if we're having kids follow up testing in their senior year and the scores are improving, it seems to me like maybe we should be focusing on core courses in the first two years, and then kind of spreading out electives over the junior senior year would be a smart answer to me.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: It's also an issue to Steve for for building a stronger foundation earlier for the kids, which is something I will get to in this.

[13420-93] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: their senior year and the scores are improving, it seems to me like maybe we should be focusing on core courses in the first two years, and then kind of spreading out electives over the junior senior year would be a smart answer to me.
TEXT> It's also an issue to Steve for for building a stronger foundation earlier for the kids, which is something I will get to in this.
NEXT> Unidentified: Sorry.

[13420-105] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I saw Whitney first' [232] befo | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: I'm interested and we don't have to.
TEXT> Discuss it in depth today in the context behind these scores. And if encouraging students to pursue community college is the only feasible solution. And if there are solutions related to either the teaching or the curriculum or the study for these AP courses, that would help bring these scores up to a 4 or 5. Because even though that I mean, it's it's a very they're very challenging tests, but it shouldn't be such a  the way that I see the AP are set up for the students that are already pretty high performers, and that if you take an AP class and do your assignments and you are a diligent student, you should easily be able to score at least a three. I personally scored four and fives on all of my AP exams. And so looking at these scores, it's kind of like  like were they paying attention? Do do they not select the higher achieving students into these courses. Like what.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: And so when you're you're. Stumbling into all of those really valid questions that I was just. Referring. To have, you can sit here and make all kinds of assumptions

[13420-113] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: So if I take AP lit in the fall and then I test in May. I've got a problem.
TEXT> You and the fact that with the AP classes, that's an awful lot of information. Other schools are starting. If you sign up for AP, your work often starts in May when you sign up, or June when you leave and and you go meet your AP teacher, and your teacher hands you all the books you need to do for summer and all the assignments. And those kids are  already hard at work on the AP curriculum before August is even there. They've read three books in a literature course, they've written a bunch of papers. So, you know, and that work continues through the year. Schools that I've, I've  worked in. There's AP classes that continue after school every day for hours on end that the teachers volunteer their time to do Saturday instruction. So the idea that we're trying to cram a  an AP course into three and a half months is insane, frankly. So there's another story behind the numbers, right? Yeah.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So I mean, that I, I kind of I'm following with Whitney here, because it's like we're offering these courses, but we're setting the students up for failure based off

[13420-142] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Josh: Can you explain what it means for 113%? What does what does that mean in terms of growth?
TEXT> Yeah. So  growth for one grade level Josh would be 100%. So that is indicative of it's an average. But if a student, say has 150% growth, that student is not only making a year's worth of of growth. What would be protected for grade level but but moving even, you know, half way beyond that. Right. So that's good news when we're looking at students who are behind reading,  you know, below, more than a year below grade level. That's good news. We want to see those significant chunks in growth. As you can see from the numbers, there's work to do in certain areas and certain grade levels as well. So any year here, as I'm closing out the end of the first year, one of the things that, really was, was part of the mission in coming here in the beginning was being able to look at what levers can be pulled immediately to have an impact on student academic achievement without doing. When you review a  program and you're, you're looking at it reviewing curriculum, that's a process that that should to be done with, with fidelity and due diligence should, should be something that takes place over an extended period of time, two years to three years in some districts.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: But to be able to, to we don't have that kind of time. We don't. We have some, low hanging fruit, if you will. And one of those things that,

[13420-144] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: a k to 12 science advisory board and be able to put in some super, logical supports for the teachers, which include, first and foremost, giving them the ability to, to do the hands on, labs for kids by purchasing the kits for each classroom.
TEXT> And that's it's like a small thing, but it's a huge thing when you are trying to to get together lessons for the different content areas as elementary teachers are,  and to think that you're chasing down 32 Q-tips, and you've got to cut 74 pieces of file into three inch strips  to be able to get those kits and be able to present to our teachers and say, here's everything you need to have the kids do these hands on experiments. Here are the assessments that are are,  you know, aligned to the national standards that will allow us to to be able to do this with fidelity, that the expectation is that you will spend K to three, that you will spend,  45 minutes to an hour each week doing science. You will you need to find that time. We need to make that commitment to it, that you will find that the,  grades four and five, that the expectation is that you find that our find that our a week to be able to do science  with fidelity and that we have  committed to being able to to monitor the teachers for that expectation that we've supported
NEXT> Mary Ellen: them with PD opportunities that, have really made a lot of sense. That was an easy one because that wasn't it's familiar to teachers. So it was not a new

[13420-145] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: grades four and five, that the expectation is that you find that our find that our a week to be able to do science with fidelity and that we have committed to being able to to monitor the teachers for that expectation that we've supported
TEXT> them with PD opportunities that,  have really made a lot of sense. That was an easy one because that wasn't it's familiar to teachers. So it was not a new curriculum here. Go off and learn this. It was something that,  They've been using to, to varying degrees, that once we had everybody in the room during our PD days going through the science, looking at the materials and understanding it, that that was a really easy lift for them. And people were very excited and remained very excited and feel like they've they've got the know how to, to be able to, to really get into the classroom and, and make a difference. And this goes to foundational skills being able to and you know, hats off to  our high school science department who early on in my time  arriving here, came to me and said, we will help our elementary colleagues any way we can, will make the kids will count Q-tips if we need to. I said, you don't need to count Q-tips. We'll get the kids. But they really wanted that science  foundation because they the kids were getting to the high school and not having the skills that the science teachers wanted them to have. So, you know, we're really we're doing this from the ground up for science. And I think we have a lot of really positive  energy around it from the teachers.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: The other lever that looking at that is, is a a source of great need in the district immediately is, is math. Our math instruction. It has has been something

[13420-150] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: learning moving forward. We adults are no different than than children. We we we may buck a little bit at some framework and discipline, but we we like it because it tells us that we're on track. It tells us we're moving the right direction.
TEXT> It helps us to understand what the expectations are for us. You can't meet a goal if you don't even know what the goal is. So for the mystery,  science and the math and focus, these have been so positive received by the teachers who were just they left that day going, can we get are we getting it, are we getting it, are we getting it? Say yes,  everybody's on board with this. Again, it's something that's familiar to them. It's not having an elementary teacher when you and I'm not an elementary teacher, but I have enough of my my best friends who are  who will say, you know. Oh, God, we're starting a new program in literacy or math this year. It's killing me because there's a lot of content for teachers to go and absorb and be able to process so that they can do it justice. And there's trainings around it. And so for us to be able to look at science and math and say, we can pull these levers easily, it's familiarity for the teachers, it's familiarity and the language and the approach for the students that we're not asking kids midstream to learn a new approach to math, to learn a new language, to the math.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: So that was kind of a logical no brainer. And I think just one other thing that that I think is going to help start to make that important shift

[13420-151] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: and say, we can pull these levers easily, it's familiarity for the teachers, it's familiarity and the language and the approach for the students that we're not asking kids midstream to learn a new approach to math, to learn a new language, to the math.
TEXT> So that was kind of a logical no brainer. And I think just one other thing that that I think is going to help start to make that important shift is that we had at the middle school,  they had been using big ideas.  And I arrived. I said, well, why aren't they using the same math program as the elementary school? And I heard, well, they didn't like it a few years ago. Okay, that kills me.  That's not liking a program. It should not be the deciding factor. That's not the end all be all for what we use. It does not make sense to me to to have our kids in sixth grade suddenly using something completely different. And then we're wondering why are they doing as well? Well, because we changed midstream on them. So,  again, reaching out to math and focus and saying, you know what? Give us everything you can for middle school math, for advanced math as well, so that we can embed advanced math skills into our seventh and our eighth grade in particular, so that they they have that support around  building those skills and then that they have those the capacity to be able to confront pre-algebra as seventh graders and to eighth graders so that we're doing what we're speaking, you know, to earlier, Steve, of you build that foundation and then you've got those skills so that when our kids show up and they're taking pre calc on
NEXT> Mary Ellen: the SAT is as juniors, it's not a completely foreign language then they've never seen before. Hopefully they will have begun to dabble with with those skills as as juniors

[13420-155] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: help gather that and then be able to to be someone at the table who can lead those conversations around the data that can help to to also support those conversations with the literacy specialist and with the principals, because we want that whole culture.
TEXT> We want the principals as the instructional leaders in their building, to be involved in those conversations with the teachers, their in their every day, day in and day out.  And we we definitely want  our literacy specialists to to be able to be armed with as much  information as is possible. And most importantly, we know the single most  important person  to a child's education is the person who stands in front of them day in and day out, and we want to arm our teachers with as much information and as support that, that we possibly can. And then finally, the social studies framework,  social studies is another  spot that we want to continue to dig in,  to and like science at the elementary school  when I arrived and said, so what happens here  in saw six for social studies at the elementary school, it was kind of a it's catch catch. Can, you know, some teachers use this, some use that, some find what they can and they kind of has to be integrated through reading and literacy, because there isn't a lot of time in the day to to do those things.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: And integration is key. At the elementary level, there is not a lot of time. The bulk of time is definitely on the traditional three hours, but there are ways

[13420-157] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: state has not been a great guide for social studies as far as the framework goes. It's my understanding that there was work that was started at the state level, in 2016, and someone passed away at the Doe and no one else was hired.
TEXT> And the work for social studies has kind of stopped at that level. So,  you know, live free or die in New Hampshire, it's at the local level. So we're going to take the, the control of, of this and we'll, we'll drive our own bus for social studies,  and make sure that we are doing justice to, to history and civics for young people.
NEXT> Unidentified: Good.

[13420-200] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: just my office and my staff to to do new teacher orientation and support the mentor program. I mean, we are right now in my office, we are we are two and a half people trying to do the work of 5 or 6 people.
TEXT> And the most important work that we do, the teachers, are the most important. That's the reason we're all here, is to have high quality teachers in front of our most valuable commodity, our young people. And so that stemming that that tide of turnover, turnover, turnover it without that, we're constantly going to be chasing our tail for for all of this, that that is our number one issue.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: This was so enlightening. And I, I want to reiterate that and I think going forward, what I would like to see is maybe a five minute presentation because I

[13420-240] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: a lot of our high school kids that go out and get alternatives around the school building. They'll go to Tremont, they'll go to Cumberland Farms. And what can we do to keep them in the building and buy the food that we have here?
TEXT> And it is absolutely merchandizing and is absolutely marketing and trying to appeal to the kids that are in the building. Our,  our  the number of meals we serve in the high school is right about 200. We've got, you know, twice as many, if not more than  than that of kids in the building. We're not getting our fair share. They have not had success in getting breakfast out.  And breakfast is an easy one. Kids come in off the bus, walk in, get checked in, grab go. We're not getting those either. This year even would free food. The kids are preferring to go outside as opposed to staying in. We're not making it attractive and giving them a reason to eat the food in inside of the building. Are there other things too, such as, hey, I don't want to eat in the cafeteria. I want to eat in a room. I don't want to eat in the cafeteria. I want to eat outside of the pick. We don't have those either. And this is a part of and this is the drive on the side of the food management service to push volume through is they want more of these kids and more the meals being done.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So we know what's going on with Abby. Group I've seen with with Cafe services. We saw what they do and some of the things they do over in Newport,

[13420-244] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: staffing, whereas it might be a quarter up in this location or a quarter down. It's a very similar discussion that we had on both of them, or their ability to be able to actually provide what they say in here. They're going to provide.
TEXT> When we add this up, and again, to a degree, because of the financial side. And, well, is that what it appears that Cafe services will be able to offer us is an improvement over what Abby Group is saying that they can offer us and what they have offered us, and therefore, the recommendation from here is that we make a switch from the Abbey Group over to Cafe Services. What this commits us to is we will go into a contract. The contract is as much as five years. If we decide after one year. Wow,  I really got duped here. And it's not anything near where. What? We can go back on another RFP so we aren't committed to five years. It's just that's the maximum amount of time necessary to reach the, before you have to do an RFP. The real issue that I think we need to address on Abby Group is the level of local support, how thin their people are being stretched, the training, the consistency, their ability to provide on getting kids interested in eating the food, being here and doing that. They just haven't been able to do it. And the changes that we're seeing or lack of changes we're seeing in their organization structure, it's not going to change going forward.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: It just isn't there. And so we're going to have the same as what we have now. But again, both of them are very quality groups. I've historically worked with

[13420-247] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member questioning the food serv | 2022-06-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: We'll start with the board and then I'll get the public after Craig.
TEXT> I'm curious what grades get open lunch at the high school. If half of the kids are going out. Excuse me. 11 and 12.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Okay.

[13420-255] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Steven.' [2], [52], [ | 2022-06-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Stephen.
TEXT> It's interesting what you just said to me, because at the end of the day, I don't care as long as the kids eating, I don't care where it comes from.  Obviously I would like to see them take advantage of the food services that we're contracting, but you're never going to stop it. If you have people leaving the building, they're going to come back with Dunkin Donuts or something. For someone, it's going to happen unless you close it down.  It and I remember open lunch was a senior privilege,  for me back in the day.  So  that's where I guess the confusion is, is why juniors have that privilege. That I think kind of contributes to the problem. But once again, if you're going out, you're you're going to get that influx. So I'm really interested to see how this is going to work. And I'm going to based off that, the the information provided when I see one kind of sitting at a 78 and the lack of confidence, and then I see, hey, we, we're going to try something new. And I see but I see a considerable spread at 94 out of a possible 100.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: That kind of gave me a good tone that, based off the explanation, what has been vetted in the fact that we can get out of it, if it was

[13420-288] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Okay, so it's the.
TEXT> It's apples and apples between the two of them. The question we should as as a district with the number of free and reduce that we have, we should be showing a consistent surplus in our food service year after year and a in a pretty good one. But you need to have the kids take the meals. You need to make it a tractor for them to take, the meals you need to get them to return their free and reduced applications because that not only drives food service, it drives titles. It drives some of our other brands.
NEXT> Unidentified: I guess I don't know how anybody can guarantee you 25,000. Do they think that all the high school kids eat there?

[13420-302] Mimi | Stevens High School guidance counselor; Ward 1 resident (presenter: 'G | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: It may be specific to that school district that they don't have a salad bar, they can't cool it. They can't do other things.
TEXT> I just I wanted to ask, okay. Because our salad bar is really a driving factor for the high school kids.  Especially like this time of year when you have, like, the fresh berries and like all the type of stuff the kids load up on salad, they make like a fruit salad on their plate. And, you know, they, they love it. And so it's, it's and it was really sad we didn't have it because of, you know, mask wearing and stuff, which we understood. But the day was back. We were like, yes, salad bars back.  I'm not kidding. Were very excited that day. So I just wanted to make sure that was going to be able to be continued.
NEXT> Unidentified: It is.

[13420-418] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (uncertain - second cluster: [600] i | 2022-06-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: he's just an amazing. Leader in the community and just a great officer. So we wish him well with that. But we also he'll he'll be around and he'll still be calling, and I'm sure it'll be assisting the community, as he always has. So.
TEXT> This may be a little bit more bad, but we've been revising our active shooter, plan. I work, and, I'm curious whether or not there was meeting points for the kids and if they were the same for fire as they are for, like, if you have a fire drill, is it the same place as an active shooter?  Because when we were reviewing our plan confidential.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's a confidential.

[13444-65] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [83-94]; c | 2022-06-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: be as creative as they were. But it was. It was all in good fun. And then you can see that's the the inside as of the Dow, you can see the I'm sorry, I'm looking at it here, but you can't see it there.
TEXT> I don't know if you can make out that at home, but you can see the the volleyball game in action right there. I went to the copy or to I came in around, I saw and I was making copies in the volleyball, cornhole and everything was going on back there and they were cooking out, having a good time. So just it's definitely the the end of the year. This is  a shout out to and I, I wish I could have if I had time, I would have kept the videos of both of them coming in.  Because I have an all new respect for the marshals, I didn't know. And at Stevens, they have this for motion thing. I. And I hadn't seen that before. Where they, they go up, up to, down to. And it's it's very,  you know, I've never seen that high school principal for 15 years, but we just had a simple motion.  Similar to to the to the unity one. But the kids did a great job  seeing that and kind of all the pomp and circumstance. And it was it's it was pretty neat.  These are I was impressed by this. The these were the,  the capstone projects for the unity,  the  eighth graders, where they  just fresh off of their DC trip. They studied  where they were going and what they were doing. Before they went, they went to Arlington Cemetery. They went to the Holocaust Museum.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And each student had to, in that same auditorium, go up there and tell exactly what they did. They were scripted. They were presentations. But that's a lot at that

[13521-21] David Putnam | Public commenter, Ward 2; member of the RTC visioning committee and fo | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right. Thank you. Mr. Damron.
TEXT> David Putnam, Ward two. Sorry to add to Candy's comment about tracking the graduation rate of our students. I think it would be important for us to see maybe the last 8 or 9 years in a chart that shows,  statistically, that any changes in in the percentage of students who graduate, who go on to working or going on to further education. And that might be useful for our visioning committee also because, as we're as we will discuss the the impact that we're seeing in a premature study is that, that this situation with the tech school didn't happen overnight. It goes back several years. So tracking it with information like your graduation rates and it would be very useful.  And since you're doing it, I'm just thinking that could be one thing out of the way.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you. All right. Anything further for citizens comments? Yep.

[13521-28] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the 7/20/22 meeting to order [1],  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Bonnie Miles: All right. Thank you.
TEXT> All right.  It's summer vacation, so our student rep is not here tonight.  So we'll jump right past that. Not much to report there.  And we're on to the superintendent's report. Thank you, everyone.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And I don't have a change of technology. Just couldn't make it today and set up. But I had the wrong clicker. I had to go to my own slide

[13521-33] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report after the cha | 2022-07-20
PREV> Bonnie Miles: Be okay.
TEXT> I should be fine. Lauren, if you could tell me, Good, good. All right, so this this daredevil activity. Okay. You might have paid to see that.  A place near you. And I apologize for the layout that you folks, this was at our our,  elementary summer program. This gentleman is a skateboard enthusiast who travels the entire East coast, who talks about the safety of  skateboarding. What was really great about this picture, not only were the teachers called out and selected by their students to be, water, as it were. I don't know what you would describe that, but,  they  he made it with room to spare, and it was. But it was neat to see them go back in and  the elementary kids hug them that they survived. Like, my day was Evil Carnival and the snake River Canyon. But that's that's what it was. It was it was great. In the summer, camps are going very well. I had the enrollment numbers for me to see at this angle. I posted  the enrollment you can see  for the elementary program and the overview you can see I can't with. This numbers, these are all going to be posted as well. Activities that are going on throughout the community  in the second year of our partnership with the community center, going very well in the kids having a great time.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Front end of the day is loaded with academics in recovery types of things. The afternoon is a lot of fun activities and events throughout the community, and museums and

[13521-35] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report after the cha | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that in a way. All right. So, chef de making kids having fun to cook from scratch. And I heard that was delicious. I tried to get over there. I didn't make it at the middle school. Same thing. They they went out. Middle school.
TEXT> Similar to the high school program focusing on kids credit recovery. So that kids finishing complete on time. So,  principal, when we open it up to the community, I think he has both  40 or 50 kids  presenting in groups and straight on Esser money also to remediate  and tutor  the kids in small groups in,  in in some cases online following up. Some are Bandcamp and some were  drama club at the middle school. Both who are are  well attended. There are a couple others. There was a leadership, one that was presented to. They didn't have a lot of you know, some kids actually one want to go have a summer. So go figure. Right.  And, Stevens High School competency. I got these in here to come up for this. Yeah, yeah. If you don't mind doing that, you know it intimately, and I can't see it, I mean, thanks.
NEXT> Mimi: Hi, guys. It's me again.

[13521-38] Mimi | Stevens High School summer school coordinator (chair introduces 'Mimi  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I can advance if you want.
TEXT> Okay. It'd be perfect. So  some of our schools started July 6th.  We had a workday for staff on the fifth. Just so you had time to get papers together. Materials ready for the kids.  We're going to August 11th, so we stop right before two days start for sports because we didn't want to have the preseason interfere, because even though obviously I couldn't come first, the kids would be really tired from the morning session, that crabby and hot. And we just were like, you know, we can finish a week earlier and be okay. It goes from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Monday through Thursday, so no Fridays, which is nice for everyone here on the second floor of the library or even high school in the library. We have eight teachers. We also have five subjects being taught. And then I'm coordinating. So it's really a group of birds. So, with our grading system, if you students get an r e, that means recovery eligible. And so if they got Rs. In any of the subjects we have at summer school, so science, math, social studies, etc., they are automatically able to come. They want to some students receive F's in those classes.
NEXT> Mimi: They earned F's. But the teacher said, hey, you got an F, you know, six weeks, enough time for you to come make up the credit. So they were able

[13521-39] Mimi | Stevens High School summer school coordinator (chair introduces 'Mimi  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Mimi: an r e, that means recovery eligible. And so if they got Rs. In any of the subjects we have at summer school, so science, math, social studies, etc., they are automatically able to come. They want to some students receive F's in those classes.
TEXT> They earned F's.  But the teacher said, hey, you got an F, you know, six weeks, enough time for you to come make up the credit. So they were able to come anyway. So it's basically, you know, recommendation and teachers discretion for the kids who earned F's. And then  I've done outreach with parents from about early March up until the end of the school year and through the summer. So we had 131 students,  invited to come to recover, 270 credits. A lot of kids were able to come and recover multiple credits, 2 or 3 or even 4 or 5, depending on the kid.  And around 100 kids said they were coming. So this is our average for attendance.  So we had 62 kids the first week on average, 52 the second week. And then it's over this week we have 39. I know it was a big drop, which might be concerning, but it's actually a good thing because it means kids are recovering their credits.  Completely recover their credits. They're done. Summers cool. They don't have to come anymore.  And we do have kids on vacation. We have some families. You know who the arrangement is? You know, the other parent has them for the first four weeks of summer, and then they're coming to us. So there are some kids who are going to end up coming, you know, next week, in the next few weeks as well.
NEXT> Mimi: So this is our numbers as of today. We have 65 credits recovered currently. Math leading the way with 30 English is right behind, what, 22? And then we have

[13521-40] Mimi | Stevens High School summer school coordinator (chair introduces 'Mimi  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Mimi: arrangement is? You know, the other parent has them for the first four weeks of summer, and then they're coming to us. So there are some kids who are going to end up coming, you know, next week, in the next few weeks as well.
TEXT> So this is our numbers as of today. We have 65 credits recovered currently.  Math  leading the way with 30 English is right behind, what, 22?  And then we have nine students who received who.  Sorry. We covered more than one credit already. And I will say the students get to kind of choose, you know, if they had English and computers, you know, which one do you wanna do first? You know, if they pick English and then after, you know, two weeks, their brain is hurting, they break, they can go do computers. So, you know, we're letting the kids kind of switch off if they feel like they just need a break, which some kids have taken advantage of. And it's been really beneficial.  This is the donation piece is okay. My hard about this right now. Okay, so, last year they provided us with food for the kids for summer school. We had full breakfast, full lunch.  And the district was unable to provide that for us this year. And I was very concerned about not having food for high school kids at summer school because hangry children was hot weather equals not wanting to do work in general.
NEXT> Mimi: So I reached out to Jack and Bryan Foundation, because they've given a lot of money to Claremont over the years, and I just asked for donation for snacks, and

[13521-41] Mimi | Stevens High School summer school coordinator (chair introduces 'Mimi  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Mimi: breakfast, full lunch. And the district was unable to provide that for us this year. And I was very concerned about not having food for high school kids at summer school because hangry children was hot weather equals not wanting to do work in general.
TEXT> So I  reached out to Jack and Bryan Foundation,  because they've given a lot of money to Claremont over the years, and I just asked for donation for snacks, and they actually gave me double what I asked for, which is amazing. $33,000.  My hope is working with Richard to get some sort of card of me I can use, like, a BJ's to get, like, bulk things. Right now I am using the Hannah for gift card or not gift cards or credit card from the district attorney. Turning my receipts. It's been working fine, and that's fine to do. But my hope is to kind of, you know, maybe next time we're able to treat the kids to muffins, pizza, you know, incentives for the kids. But I can't upfront that money. So my hope is to be able to somehow get that money so I can spend it accordingly, if that makes sense. But the conversation I think me and Richard have to have at some point, because there are things I don't understand about money. But yeah. Any questions for me about summer school?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is this strictly an SEO funded program?

[13521-45] Mimi | Stevens High School summer school coordinator (chair introduces 'Mimi  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, they all are. Yeah. Right now this is this is a program that they've had forever.
TEXT> Yeah. Summer school has been around before Esser. But I think the expansion has happened because of this. And I will just say just a quick side plug, I guess. I really hope that you guys look at kind of continuing the summer camps for the elementary kids once the funds run out, and also obviously high school summer camp for summer school as well. Because I think it's been great for the kids in our district to have that. And I think every parent I've run into has said how amazing it's been for them to be able to send their kids to the camp for all day and not worry about them. And, you know, they're having an amazing experience. And I think it's a really cool thing to have an hour district for our kids. You know, you're also employing, you know, staff as well over the summer, which is also equally important. So I think it's a really important thing to keep in mind when you look ahead to the budgets. We have one more year as our budget. Is that right? Yeah. So next summer we cover for the summer after. I would really encourage that figure, a way to make it work, because I think it really is important to have in our, you know.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And then one, one clarifying thing on that too is that all of the because of Covid, all of the lunches have been free for two years. And that's also

[13521-55] Mimi | Stevens High School summer school coordinator (chair introduces 'Mimi  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Unidentified: Oh. I'm sorry. In the numbers. Okay. Yeah. Yep. And so I wondered how many you had planned for.
TEXT> I had planned for about that many. Okay. So, because I, I've been working to 48 hours school since the start of the school year, pretty much. So I, I had a running spreadsheet. So I knew the families that I called and who was coming, and, you know, I did plus or minus about 20, you know, so my numbers were pretty on point. And now that we have no any kids, we have and we have to get stacks for them. You know, we have you know, we have I make them PB and J's for lunch every day because that's what we have. We're careful with allergies,  to make them in a separate area. You know, kids wash their hands, all the good stuff, but. So I'm just friends. A lunch lady at lunchtime. And J's, the kids love them.  Strawberry or grape is their choice. You know, and we have fruit snacks, granola bars, that type of stuff. We have water cups, so we have a good snacks as well to kind of just keep the kids engaged. Yes, Mike, sorry.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: We don't utilize the free lunch that is taking place throughout the city.

[13521-57] Mimi | Stevens High School summer school coordinator (chair introduces 'Mimi  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: We don't utilize the free lunch that is taking place throughout the city.
TEXT> So we thought about that  and talked about that, and we were hoping to kind of have lunch at the high school, which is why I had wanted that money. But then I kind of realized the vision of it, and the kids were able to leave and go for lunch the first few days, and then it kind of became a longer period than they were supposed to be gone for. And which is again, it's high school kids this summer. I get it taught.  And Mr. Pratt kind of said, you know, we're offering food at the high school. They don't need to leave. But we do say if they want to bring food with them, they can. And I haven't had any kids tell me this random starving. Like I need food. I need like, I need some lunch than what you're offering. And if kids said that, of course I would say, yeah, we put on the park right away and get it. And that that lunch goes from 12 to 1, I think. So we and we end up one. So, you know, some kind of kids leave at eight, 12, 15 and then I don't get that. They go home. But we are offering, you know, enough snacks to get them through, I think. Any other questions for me to anything.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[13521-82] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report after the cha | 2022-07-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: So if we're unable to fill the positions for the academic centers, where are we going to shift that those Esser funds to, or are we going to be creative with how we help to stabilize the academically insecure in our.
TEXT> Yeah, so so  like like everything if if we can't we will we will revisit that. If we can't fully staff it, we'll present more to the board.  We've had,  you know, amongst ourselves and with the board, we've had discussions about looking at other, other things  at, for example, shoring up some facilities, looking at outdoor classroom more vigorously, again, in reimbursement for  for things versus people that are more durable for the one time money. All are  definitely having in mind that we're not only put Penny on the table.  And there are some construction projects that we have  looked at, even with SR two that are still on the boards for the for the high school HVAC, and also for some of the other projects that we're getting closer to, with playgrounds and facility. So we will we'll have a backup plan for everything in terms of infrastructure, long term curriculum buys to it was I would tell you, it's a was a geek a thon. I have to admit it. But just talking about the curriculum ideas that in places that we can go, with interventions, with software, with things that that track  student success and also,  I think what was more engaging was the variety of perspectives from our three experts in the field.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So it's it's exciting. We just need to get the teachers as well, obviously. But we also have all all three, including. Mr. Kosky, who can speak for himself in

[13521-95] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the 7/20/22 meeting to order [1],  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we have again for the follow up. Presentation and I, I just realized that I can, I'm sorry, when we get the committee updates, I think I can put my, I can put it on that computer and they have it at home to. Okay.
TEXT> So we did get some nice press about the the summer school program. We have someone posted on what's Up Claremont that the trip to the monster was very,  kids are very engaging. The teachers are great. The kids are, well, you know, so it was really. It was nice.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There's a lot. Yeah. I mean, it's it's it's really it's really fun, particularly with the, with the, with the little guys. And I think with another year under the

[13521-105] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - by content: says the vision | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we have an amazing community that has always supported us. And I think if we get together and ask for for donations and things like that, I think we get a good response, you know, in the future as well. It's a incredibly supportive community.
TEXT> So is there a way you can prove that the children who took these classes, these courses in the summer? Yeah. A much better off when it's done for them at the end of the summer.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Sure, sure.

[13521-108] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report after the cha | 2022-07-20
PREV> Bonnie Miles: Pairing them for September.
TEXT> Yeah. So I, I know in the elementary they do they do the pre and post test and they, most of them because they were all our kids. They, we know right where they left off with their high ready data anyway. So they, they  kind of continue that  and  we know that credits gained at the high end. We know the individual anecdotal reports from the middle school and then the other ones that we were  we also had some other like the camp that Alex has always had here. We were able to fund that. We were able to fund  and assist  Crystal Simons with her leadership  camp, the ABC, not the. Yes. Okay. There you go. So,  so,  you know, well, we have it. We're trying to get every kid out doing something and  in achieving in some way. So. But we can I I'm excited with a new team to look at how we can harness some there. There are creative ways and, to, to look at using grants that we have to we have to look at for a bunch of things. So and we know we know people in your district who are available now to help us.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: Not my district anymore.

[13521-136] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2; presenter for the Sugar River Valley RTC vis | 2022-07-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: member from the sugar. Excuse me? The River Valley community College, Jerry Apel. And from the business community. We have David Putnam and Andy from Claremont Custom Framing. We have Tim Renner from hyperthermia and Mitch Latvia from Latvia. Tools. In addition to this group.
TEXT> We have community members.  You can see them listed here. I'd just like to point out that it is a group of young and old people. It's a really diverse group.  It's,  there is there are a couple of former school board members, long standing school board members.  Gary Merchant happens to be our state representative.  Derek Ferland is our county manager. And John Lambert, special shout out to him. He has been a member of the Automotive Craft Committee since its inception, I think,  which is God save you  a  long time that he served. So we have lots of  folks with a lot of past experience, and we have people, new people, young people  to to give us that input as well. We're not saying that we're limited to this group.  But that's who's been working with us so far. And there may be others who join us as as we go forward. Any questions on that one? Okay. So why are we here?  Well,  again, they were concerns about proposed cuts.  And so and some of the questions were how many programs do we need and what programs should we offer?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Is the facility being fully utilized, and can we run it more efficiently to reduce costs? And I might add. Are we meeting the needs of the students? Because that's

[13521-137] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2; presenter for the Sugar River Valley RTC vis | 2022-07-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: us as as we go forward. Any questions on that one? Okay. So why are we here? Well, again, they were concerns about proposed cuts. And so and some of the questions were how many programs do we need and what programs should we offer?
TEXT> Is the facility being fully utilized, and can we run it more efficiently to reduce costs?  And I might add. Are we meeting the needs of the students? Because that's what we're in it for.  Just as an information, Scott Pope suggested forming a visioning committee to get the community involvement to answer these questions and more. We've had three committee meetings so far. We've got another one scheduled for next week.  Just a side note.  Scott has been had been chair of this,  during the first two meetings, but due to personal problems, issues at home.  He's had to resign as the chair.  And so he will still be participating, but not as chair. And so the group last time,  elected in,  Alex Herzog as to be the replacement chair. So Alex's is,  working in that  capacity. So for these three meetings, have we accomplished anything? Well, this is our big accomplishment. Let's we we have a mission statement, and and we thought this was really important to,  to make sure that we were all on board with what we saw as our task and that we could all agree on this verbiage. And so I'd like to read it.  The mission of the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center Vision Group is to research, develop, and recommend best practices that maximize beneficial outcomes for all stakeholders of the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center facility and its CTE programs.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. So so now we agree on what our mission is. How are we going to do it? And the purpose of this effort is again to say, where are

[13521-157] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2; presenter for the Sugar River Valley RTC vis | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: hearing, is the other direction that this committee thinks we should be going. As far as programs to be added, programs to be removed if they're not working anymore. And kind of, you know, what the target is and, then figuring how we get there.
TEXT> You know, I think we all are quite sensitive to the needs of the community. We all are taxpayers. We know what the tax rate is. We also know how important it is for our students to be successful. And if I can recall those numbers from the graduating class, only 50% are going on to further education. We need to address the students we have here, and I think we have to be careful and not be short term versus long term. Blinders on.  We need to think about the tax rate for the next year. However, we need to think about the success of our students and long term, what is the success for this community? And it's to have successful students who are working in the community. I just have to add this other I was on a conference call this morning. Regarding  housing  and the housing shortages in New Hampshire and the housing shortages in  the Upper Valley in particular. And one of the items that was addressed was the need to have skilled workmen who can  build and rehab houses. And I thought, oh, my gosh, that's exactly what we're talking about here. Making sure that our students are  ready to fill that need. And that is clearly one of the things that,  we will be addressing.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Heather.

[13521-199] David Putnam | Public commenter, Ward 2; member of the RTC visioning committee and fo | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: in line with with the mission. Obviously, I don't know the degree of scope that we need the report down before it's changed. And some of the ones I know that I've talked to Alex and already started. So it's it's good work. They're doing.
TEXT> Some of our what where we're at is, is, is learning how  the changes that have developed over the last 6 to 8 years have brought us to the concern that the public has for the tech school. And and we know that a lot of students are enrolled here. We know that more than half of the students enrolled here are not in CTE approved programs or participating in CTE approved programs to to be certified through a CTE program. And whereas other technical schools like Hartford, their enrollment is for our CTE programs for certified c d certificates is very, very, very high. There are very few electives offered at that school. It's truly about technical school. And is that the direction that the community wants this center to be? Well, we feel from the reaction we've gotten that it is. And when this school first opened in the early 90s, it was only a CTE school system. And you, I see people who graduated through this program all week long who are working in this community with jobs because they had a CTE certificate from this school building. And and now it's because of changing of staff over a lot of years, changing of how administrators worked the system and made decisions for it.
NEXT> David Putnam: For instance, the culinary arts program is dramatically diluted from a CTE program to what it is now. So it's things like that that we have to discover and make

[13521-216] Mimi | Stevens High School summer school coordinator (chair introduces 'Mimi  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: $3,000 for the the high school. Summer school? Yep.
TEXT> So it's just it's for snacks for, you know, if we can do, like, a pizza or muffin thing for the kids next summer, if we figure out how I can get that money spent, you know, not to be reimbursed that type of thing. So the hope is for that money to last for at least the next few summers. I think this summer. Richard, I know you guys had the receipts. I think I've spent like $350 so far. I think just like stuff. And Hannaford does tend to be more pricey than other stores, so keep that in mind as well. So I think once I'm able to kind of spend that money at like BJ's, where I have a membership or Walmart where the price won't be quite as high as Hannaford, I think that money will go further as well, but I'm very cognizant of the budget I have with the money I have and, you know, making sure that things get used and not being wasteful with it because I'm very grateful that we got the money to begin with.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So am I correct that this is under the $5,000 threshold? That doesn't.

[13521-229] Mimi | Stevens High School summer school coordinator (chair introduces 'Mimi  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Unidentified: The process was. Did you mean the. Card or why does it.
TEXT> So I have a membership. So the the the the  I  had the credit card from the district, but so what I've talked about with Richard is like like a visa gift card, which he has said we can't do for regulations, but like, just like a general credit card baby or something that I have that has that limit that I know so I can go to like the barn and get mustard for the kids, you know what I mean? Or treatment. So just like a way that I can just generally have a card under the district, obviously that I would turn and I'm not using it with the receipts and stuff, but I like fall off this podium,  to spend the money. So, you know, if that's like a general visa Mastercard credit card.
NEXT> Unidentified: Does the district have a p card or a p card policy? No. No, I.

[13556-87] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-08-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: And then the third thing was at the deliberative meeting and in March the public, supported a full time counselor position at the tech center. Has that person been hired and is that person on staff.
TEXT> So the guidance position wasn't for the tech center. It was put at the middle school and hopes to have the feeder for the  to the tech center and to the high school, so that to have a to have a a the goal is so that we have more students who are in the middle school and in the high school, in the actually in the tech, the kids that are in the tech itself when they're here. It wouldn't do any good to have a counselor here, you know, we have to get them from there in class when they're here. You know what I mean? I'm not trying to be.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I understand that they're in class when they're here. However, that was a position that had been cut, and, it was identified that there was a need for that position

[13556-93] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-08-17
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> So in my in my thought, it helps at an earlier age get kids interested in the tech in the tech program instead of hitting the high school and becoming, you know, being a freshman and then maybe a sophomore and then go, oh, I'm interested in the tech. It's a little late. So if you can get them earlier and figure out their interest earlier in seventh or eighth grade and get them in this direction.
NEXT> Unidentified: And one more thing.

[13556-102] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-08-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay, I'll keep asking. Thank you.
TEXT> Anyone else from the public? All right. Seeing that, I'm going to close citizens comments and move on.  Summer, our student rep is not here.  So we are on to the superintendent's report.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So the the the first slide, as you see on there is taken from the field, as they say at the I believe that was from the the principals meeting

[13556-294] Unidentified | Board member, Heather Whitney or Bonnie Miles (uncertain - the diarize | 2022-08-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Is a needs assessment.
TEXT> And, you know,  getting teachers up to speed and evaluating student needs. And so he had a very detailed plan in place that Covid, apparently, according to him, kind of derailed. And why reinvent the wheel if we kind of have or. Get the money from Perkins. And bring. It up.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We'll bring it up on Thursday.

[13556-416] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: is the New Hampshire School Board Association rep. We've always. We will. We haven't always, but we did have, Carolyn Tol was our rep to go to the the some of the meetings and the delegate to the delegation there. Craig, you probably explained it.
TEXT> I can explain it. Yeah. What it is. You have to understand that the the School Board Association is essentially a lobbying group, and that's what they are. They, they go to, Concord and, and they advocate on behalf of, of their membership. And so it's important for representation to go down there in order for, the school board association to have a sense of, of the will of the, of the schools and the on the school boards within the state. So you'll see, often we'll get these things from the school board association with their position on, on different topics or bills that are coming forward with their position. So it's  and the role of that person is to come back and share with the board,  because the, the rep, the delegate doesn't go and vote his or her conscience. They vote, they both what the board tells them to vote. And so it's sort of a back and forth thing. And  so that's what that's what it is.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's a time commitment.

[14582-18] Unidentified | Stevens High School administrator presenting the SHS handbook and rest | 2022-08-24
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah, well, it's beyond the scope of.
TEXT> The school as well. So, you know, I'm glad that you, you bring this concern up because really what we're doing now is that when you look at the the infraction chart, that's really not a restorative piece at all. That's progressive discipline. And we'd like to say that this year will get to the point where we can start enacting restorative practices. But when you look on the,  the infraction chart, the progressive discipline at the end, those are just options. And to give clarification is that anytime there's anything on the infraction, this infraction shot was we go back to,  a few months ago when I presented about the result of this right here. This is kind of like the beginning of the blueprint for where we want to go. It's all about changing the climate. And right now this chart here is saying this is what we want the kids to be aware of. It's kind of like we're moving from this is what we don't want you to do to eventually go into this is how we want you to react. So right now this is the discipline in the don't do.
NEXT> Unidentified: And we want to get to the point where this is what we want you to do. So when you see the restorative, the option at the end, all that

[14582-40] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2022-08-24
PREV> Heather Whitney: Whitney.
TEXT> I am not really clear on Frank's specific question, but I'm so I'm going to ask a clarifying question and try to get it. Are you saying that the introduction to this matrix hold on. How is it called in here? The infraction chart doesn't clearly state what it's for to the student. Like what is what's your concern here? Okay. That weapons we have an option of mediation or student panel. But that's underneath up to ten days of out of school suspension a possible expulsion hearing. And notify police and parents of loss of privilege for two weeks that were Lop stands for. So this is the consequence and the restorative justice option would come into play. After the consequences are handed down, the student faces them. And now we're at the point of discussion where we are  entertaining the idea of them entering the school building again.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[14582-50] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - never named in his own turns; ident | 2022-08-24
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> I am having done this for 10 to 15 years. I in also having to mitigate with some of the ones at Stevens and do that I, I, I agree, I agree with everyone's points on the clarity and the couple words here or there in the 14 and 15 year old will will get it right away or won't come in. But on the other hand, having seen kind of the the sea change,  with, with the school  community and  stuff  at the tail end of the year and the kids adopting this and the kids excited about being heard, I think it can be all served with a, with a few tweaks and I but I know those who don't tune in, those who are on the fringe when they see this, they're going to look for the out and I, I, I hear you, Frank. Yeah I agree.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: What can one more, parking in the faculty parking lot? It's I thought that was kind of vague. It said that students who parked there will face consequences. And I

[14582-92] Unidentified | Mixed cluster - one or more board members' questions and motions plus  | 2022-08-24
PREV> Heather Whitney: So, unless we have any more discussion, I did. One more.
TEXT> On page 28 for the school counseling services. It says  it reads that depending on your last name, who is going to be a guidance counselor? Are there any exceptions to that rule? Let's say you're related to the guidance counselor and there's a family problem going on. You don't want that guidance. The parents don't want that guidance counselor. Is it allowed? But they can. I think we have to, you know, on circumstances like that, the administration is going to look at. They. Have to be here. It can they can still alter that. Yeah. I think that anything like that would be up to the okay administration to to have those conversations to do what's best for the, the student and the family. So absolutely. Thank you. Yep.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. I'm looking for a motion to approve the Stevens High School Handbook motion.

[14595-29] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: for citizens comments at this time? All right. Seeing none, we're going to move on to. Well, the student rep is not here tonight. She had another obligation. She'll be here on a regular basis once school really gets back into swing. So, superintendents reports.
TEXT> Superintendents report. I have sent. It out to you. So if you if you can see that at home and futures in the audience, I don't know if you can see the angle. Of the. That's perfect. That's why I've suggested the other the other person in that seat, at least one of them is knows the slides pretty well and was did a great job with this. So what I  you see on the the first slide is  the the dot  skywalk and where we have a literacy initiative that I'll talk about  in subsequent slides. You can see  captured with the new  curriculum team. The motto of every every child grows when every child learns. We have partnered with Fable Vision  and author  Peter Reynolds.  And we have some exciting things coming up. One of them coming up Monday that we'll talk about in this, but they're coming out on site. It's a really it's a it's a great program. The next and then  the best part was  yesterday of seeing all the kids around the district  back at it. And as you see the  there's two pieces  here. This is a  classroom at  Maple, I believe, on the left.  And I know that's the art room in Maple.  And you can see those gold frames if you see those up on the blue background.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Those have to do with our initiative and a story that we'll talk about in here, which is the Dot by Peter Reynolds. Next slide all around that is downstairs

[14595-33] Stephanie Hurst | Literacy specialist, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Stephanie Hurst: films that they have prepared. It's a short 30 minute film, and then they'll do some activities with the Dot to help motivate and get parents involved in the in the process, as well as students, and then in the art classes and library classes.
TEXT> They'll be working with the activities that Fable Vision has for us  week two next week. Fable vision will be here every day in the elementary schools to work with students to help kick this initiative off. So we're really excited. Every student gets a book,  a copy of the Dot at elementary school and at middle and high school. They get a copy of Start With a Word. It's a journaling type thing, so they can still  be involved as well. We're hoping to have some of the students at the middle and high school mentor the students and be there to help  assist Fable Vision to just kind of tie in that whole engagement across the district. So we're really excited. And,  we, you know, we just can't can't thank them enough for all that they've done to help get this started for us this year. So can't wait to be here at the end of the school year talking about how much growth students have made. So thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you, thank you.

[14595-38] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Stephanie Hurst: Were delivered at schools today.
TEXT> Oh. That's great. Yeah. And they they just came out. But we this was put together within the last three weeks. And again,  also skillfully using the grant money that we have  not leaving anything on, on the, on the table for, for just a great experience for the students.  Okay. Here's a drag. All right. So I got three slides of Covid and then we never go back. Okay. So  it's a low community risk  right now that we that we've said before. And I say this because people have asked this in the community and they have asked in schools and  it's tough to  it's wonderful. Don't get me wrong, that's not like the previous three years with all of the other rigamarole where you see people out and about, as you saw in those slides, people are back at it. But some people are still getting sick. And I had,  Veronica put some slides together to and we can just talk about these,  basically,  if you're sick, you stay home. These are the CDC recommendations. We said this before and people have asked, you know, where do we leave off before? Is it is it kind of the same?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's almost essentially the same as how we left off in May with a couple of really important exceptions. And these are on the, excuse me, in that there's no

[14595-45] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: it was pretty amazing to see and also see the notes of of how fine tuned it was for pickup of the individual. So most teachers had a different roster each week. Maybe let's say they had 13. They had like the same core ten.
TEXT> But some came, some went  the that's what I liked. How personalized the I mean, I'm the data geek or whatever, but you could see the individual attention to the kids needs and the parents needs.  So it was it was it was pretty well done. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So academic growth though. Did we get numbers on those.

[14595-52] Arlene Hopkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Unidentified: So I.
TEXT> Just ask you.  I also am very curious about the pre and post assessment data for the students who attended, because it seems like you had the extended year students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[14595-58] Arlene Hopkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The, the, the s y kids, there were only two or 3SY kids per class okay on there. So that number was really low.
TEXT> So right from your review of the pre and post data, did you see growth in the academics? For the students who attended.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There was growth. I haven't I haven't seen and prepared that data for today. But Steph Steph's nodding I haven't seen that yet.

[14595-76] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: in Newport for many years is that, they are a smaller school than us and they're, they're, they're lean. They share teachers with their with the middle school. High school teachers also teach middle school specials. So that results in a lot of singletons there.
TEXT> And a singleton is of course that there's only one section of. And when the computer does the schedule, it puts that class wherever the most kids can access it. And there may be 1 or 2 kids that wanted to come over here and take part two of something. Or part one of something in that class is is there. So they have to make some difficult decisions. So there's we we talked about that a little bit. The fact that  there's not a lot of flexibility. The topic of a  of a regional, a concept, I should say, of a regional technical high school comes up. I shared my experience up at Harwood Union, where the kids would leave for the day and go to Spaulding and Barre for the day. And I had there were I know that that's the model in Massachusetts. So we're really,  just, I think a little stuck. I think we need a jumpstart there.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I think we'll.

[14595-100] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-07
PREV> Unidentified: Yep.
TEXT> We actually  had a great meeting  today. We kind of ironed out some details of how we anticipate moving forward. We did find that we have two policies for the board tonight for first read approval.  One is JICK and the second is JICG. We'd like these put through to first read. Not full approval tonight, just to make sure that there's not some changes desired by the full board. These are basically, policies that are required by law. So there's not much really to go by. And the second one on the student discipline, which is J I CD, the only real change, I think, that we had discussed, is on page six and it's super intendant authority.  Known as optional. It's an optional piece of the policy. Mike was present for the meeting, and he agreed on the removal of that, so that we can maintain consistency throughout the,  discipline and due process.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So what do we mean? I'm sorry.

[14595-112] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2022-09-07
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So,  one of the things I did notice is that the school district this is on page six under Educational assignments, 20 days seemed excessive to me. For one, we're going to start providing additional educational services. If a kid is suspended or a student is suspended in excess of 20 cumulative days within a school year. I just think there's a lot of loss that happens before those. I mean, the kids that are being suspended are troubled kids.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: I think that by alternative educational services, I don't think that means providing them with their assignments. I think alternate educational services is like a well, I'm thinking about, like

[14595-134] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-07
PREV> Unidentified: I mean.
TEXT> I would say that I can see where you're coming with on this one, Heather, but let's say there's two let's say there's two disruptive students per classroom in those kids. While they may miss 20 community to that community days in a year. What do we do for the students? They're getting disrupted by these because, I mean, you can't you can't do one without doing the other.
NEXT> Unidentified: No.

[14595-245] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-09-07
PREV> Unidentified: I've lived.
TEXT> Here for 20 years. So all that you said about the benefit of utilizing these funds to support our taxes completely in agreement with that, the way title works is it's allocated to the district primarily based on the level of free and reduced students that we have. So it has to do with our demographics. We aren't applying for it and saying we want 10,000. Here's how we spend it. They come to us and say based on whatever imaginations they go through, here's how much you're going to get right now.  Go down through and determine how we're going to spend it, right? That based on the consistency of the funding every year, that should not be a hard process based on having a multiyear strategy in the school district. That should not be a hard process. It has historically, in Claremont, been a hard process. So I don't want to give back a single penny of monies that could potentially help our students that come from another source. I understand we haven't done it very well. We're focused on doing it well, hopefully next year.
NEXT> Arlene Hopkins: So for this coming year. Yes. You're saying it's not in place for that money to be spent because of misuse?

[14595-281] Arlene Hopkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: I'm going to ask you to wrap up your comments.
TEXT> My comment is that if we have funds that need to be spent, I want to see our children benefit from opportunities to be successful in their learning. And whether that money gets spent in a week or two, it can be spent and it needs to be spent.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.

[14595-380] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-09-07
PREV> Richard Seaman: we will have to pay in January. So we actually set that tax rate in November, beginning of December. They're going to utilize this additional funds. And basically it just flows right through to reduce the tax rate by what will equate to about $0.65.
TEXT> So those are our two options. We either say that we've received something magnanimously from the state to help our kids. Let's put it into a place where we can use it for our kids, or we don't do anything at all. And it goes to reducing the tax rate by $0.65. And let's understand our budget from last year to this year already reduced our tax rate by $1.13. So we had made progress on our reduction in taxes. Now the question is because we have this, is there something that we believe is useful to doing it? Hands have come up, so I'll stop.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I saw it, Steven.

[14595-400] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: Steven. Next.
TEXT> So I have an interesting question. What's our annual lunch cost for all students in the district?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: I don't I don't know the answer to that off the top of my head. Steven.

[14595-407] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-07
PREV> Richard Seaman: It is one time money. That is correct.
TEXT> Inflation side. An all time high. Fuel costs are at an all time high when us to help. If we're going to take the money from the taxpayer, I can see I'm trying to find out the number because I'm trying to see if we can help provide something to the the children with the money. That isn't something that we were anticipating, because I think our budget covers a fair amount of stuff we want to do. And if we're getting some surprise one time money, I think we should use it very smartly. But I think a lot of families right now  are going to have that trouble come heating season when they really start paying. Not everybody has the luxury of paying an advance or doing a payment plan or pre by.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So don't we have 300 grand in the lunch money budget?

[14595-416] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-09-07
PREV> Unidentified: And and.
TEXT> And again the food service doesn't cost us anything. But there are a number of our students that pay for their breakfast and pay for their lunch. So if we're looking at going the direction unity just went, the direction said, we're going to provide free breakfasts to all students, and there was a cost to that. I have not worked that up for Claremont. I could work it up. It's not a hard number to do.
NEXT> Unidentified: Pardon me.

[14627-17] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-09-15
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> All right. Anything further for citizens comments? All right. Seeing none, we're going to move on to the student rep report.  We have this Hanoverian.
NEXT> Unidentified: So for maple. Maple is having their annual title one meeting and open house on September 27th from 530 to 7. And the Maple students met Jane Reynolds, who's the

[14627-19] Unidentified | Student representative to the board (name garbled in ASR as 'Hanoveria | 2022-09-15
PREV> Unidentified: the next couple of weeks, so keep your eyes open for that. I also have been working with Mr. Pratt this last week, and we sent students to Google Forum about the new cardinal recognition cards, and the responses we got back were very positive.
TEXT> We received 119 responses. 25.2 for freshmen, or 25.2% were freshmen, 34.5% were sophomores, 21.8% were juniors, and 18.5% were seniors, and 62.2% of the students believe that these cards are already making a positive impact on Stevens. And,  I also like, made the mistake of putting negative and no impact together. So that got 37.8%. But based off the comments that I read, that number is mainly students not seeing a huge impact yet as it is only the third week of school, and only 14.3% of the students have received one of these cards so far this year, which is a great start, and a lot of the teachers are  starting to hand them out more than at the beginning of the year, and 66.4% of students said they are familiar with the cardinal recognition cards, which has been going up since the survey was put out last week. So I feel that this that word is starting to get out about these cards better now and is definitely a step in the right direction and making the school a more positive place. And it seems like all the schools are having a great start to their year. Thank you. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Questions for our student.

[14627-20] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-09-15
PREV> Unidentified: starting to get out about these cards better now and is definitely a step in the right direction and making the school a more positive place. And it seems like all the schools are having a great start to their year. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Questions for our student.
NEXT> Unidentified: So can you describe what these cards are? Of course a little bit. I'm guessing their got you being good in a card or something. Yeah. It's like so whenever

[14627-88] Unidentified | Stevens High School counselor presenting the 2022 school profile (not  | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: I prefer email, please.
TEXT> I can send to everyone you want me to go on?  Did you guys all get this? I emailed Mike. Okay. Just want to make sure everyone has something. So I'm not just talking, and everyone's like, what? So every year  we do a school profile. It goes to colleges. It goes if a kid transfer to a different school, the school counselor at that school might ask for it. So they know that our school. So the first page is kind of an overview of our school community talks about Claremont. It talks about  AP classes,  programs we have for athletics, that type of thing.  You will know right now we are down to school counselor. So we are in the midst of hiring one. But currently rain and I are holding down the fort with two of us, but we are hopeful to go back to three as soon as humanly possible. The second page is charts.  And that is where it has the postgraduate plans. So  we, we broke it down pretty much. So the four year college was 40%,  two year college was 19%. So the total of that was 59% of our kids last year went to a 2 or 4 year college. And again, this could have changed from, you know, June when we got some information from them.
NEXT> Unidentified: 2% went to the military and 35% went to employment. And then we had 4% return of students, high school for postgrad studies, which is students who can save their

[14627-158] Michael Koski | SAU 6 administrator leading the curriculum team (uncertain - not named | 2022-09-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: This is.
TEXT> A little bit information about how we're going about with our Esser planning and for the  curriculum team. Stephanie and Heather are here to  help me with this, but just to give us an overall view. We're first starting off with some assessment and trying to figure out where we are. Secondly, we we have to incorporate all of the standards, the state standards into our courses to make sure that they are  our  destination. That that's where all our courses are taking us. We've begun that work. And the piece missing here is the curriculum adoption or the curriculum piece. We due to Covid, the last curriculums officially adopted are many years old and so those need to be updated. We also are using some of this money just to buy those supports. So we have those pilot programs, things that will guide the curriculum. And so we're going to follow this process to to  get to all of our students growing and improving in their academics. On our next slide we have  our reading proficiency scores from the I ready data. That is it's really our, one consistent data point that we have over the past few years. That green line at the top is 80% proficiency, which is really the national norm where our students should be.
NEXT> Michael Koski: We have 44% of our students from 20 1920 at grade level or above. In 2021, it went up to 50 and then to 51. And so that is in

[14627-159] Michael Koski | SAU 6 administrator leading the curriculum team (uncertain - not named | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Koski: reading proficiency scores from the I ready data. That is it's really our, one consistent data point that we have over the past few years. That green line at the top is 80% proficiency, which is really the national norm where our students should be.
TEXT> We have 44% of our students from 20 1920 at grade level or above. In 2021, it went up to 50 and then to 51.  And so that is in those are our reading scores. So there's  a lot of room for growth there. And then our math scores are visible there. Again 80% is  the norm for  this this testing. These are  our scores in the spring. So we plan on taking measurements in the fall. The winter and the spring get three measurements over the course of the school year.  We want to see see growth during that school year. But we also want to see growth year to year as, as our  instruction and  curricula give us better guides. So,  Stephanie, could I ask you to come up and speak to the summer program?
NEXT> Stephanie Hurst: How are you doing? I'm happy to be here again this this week. Or. It seems like we were just here a couple of weeks ago. So for the summer

[14627-160] Stephanie Hurst | Literacy specialist, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Koski: We want to see see growth during that school year. But we also want to see growth year to year as, as our instruction and curricula give us better guides. So, Stephanie, could I ask you to come up and speak to the summer program?
TEXT> How are you doing? I'm happy to be here again this this week. Or. It seems like we were just here a couple of weeks ago. So for the summer program, we had promised you guys some data that we could look at from I. Ready. And unfortunately, the way that the data point that was selected was categorized, it was not able for us to pull that after,  the rollover for the school year. So unlike the diagnostic data that is reported historically, a growth monitoring assessment was assigned. And we can't access that data. So and it's also like comparing apples to oranges. So it's not as easy for us to use.  The teachers at the summer program did an excellent job about giving the assessment,  collecting data on their students,  anecdotes, data. But for next year, we have a plan to do better. So I've been meeting this week with I ready and last week with I ready. And they suggested what they use with other districts as a standards mastery assessment. So we can give a pre and a post assessment and we can hone in on a specific targeted goal for each grade level.
NEXT> Stephanie Hurst: So if that's phonological awareness for kindergarten students that are there, if it's phonics, if it's vocabulary comprehension, whatever that specific area of need is, we can focus on that

[14627-166] Heather Pelkey | Curriculum specialist (math), SAU 6 (addressed as 'Heather'; 'Doctor P | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Koski: here that just kind of give you an overview for math. And so Heather, if I could have you come up and just kind of talk us through this graphic a little bit. This is kind of what we're the process. We're working through everyone.
TEXT> So this is the development of mathematical reasoning. And it explains how your math thinking grows over time. So they start out with the beginning strategies of counting moving into additive. Usually students are in additive thinking by they should be there pretty solid by the end of second grade. Multiplicative reasoning is third, fourth, and fifth grade. Proportional reasoning begins in sixth grade, and by the end of seventh grade, students should be in the functional reasoning. Most people,  Based on the way that teaching  math has been,  live in between additive and multiplicative thinking, which means that students,  they're not ready for the upper level, deeper understanding of the math and the harder topics. So, for example, in addition, between counting strategies and additive strategies, if you can think of right now, if you think of the problem 58 plus five, how would you solve that? So are you counting on your fingers? 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63 that's accounting strategy. Or are you going? Well, 58 plus two would give me 60 and three more is 63. That's an additive strategy. So we're the students need to be building on  those strategies. So that's what we're going to be working on  with the numbers sense and getting our students into the higher levels of thinking as they progress and make sure they are where they're supposed to be.
NEXT> Michael Koski: Okay.

[14627-171] Stephanie Hurst | Literacy specialist, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Koski: Okay. And Stephanie, you want to come speak to this literacy graphic?
TEXT> I forgot about this. I thought you wanted me to comment on that math slide, and I was going to say no, thank you. I'm still trying to put together the mathematical problem that other as does to solve in our heads. So,  this is a Scarborough rope, and this is  the new science of reading trend that you may have heard of. There's been a lot of debate over the science of reading. It's not a new term. It's it's actually the way that probably most of us were taught in school to read phonics instruction that,  follows this particular path. And so the word recognition section here in blue is the part that we're really honing in on. And if you could see the breakdown of data in the years past, you can see where phonological awareness and phonics is definitely on. The uptick in our scores.  And comprehension is still where we need to do a lot of our work. As those children receive that instruction in grades K through second grade. That's going to fix the problem going forward. But we still have the problem with children who haven't received that explicit phonics instruction. You know, five years ago that we're still trying to remedy, but I won't I won't read it all to you.
NEXT> Stephanie Hurst: But you can see here how it builds at the end. A skilled reader, when you have every one of these strands going forward. Again, as I mentioned that we've

[14627-177] Stephanie Hurst | Literacy specialist, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: How are you finding by in or people willing to accept this or.
TEXT> I have. 24 teachers. 24 is my number tonight, but I have 24 teachers who are piloting and even more that are interested in continuing to pilot this year, whether it's just a unit, so that they can have some feedback or it's a whole year of the pilot. So they seem very open to it. The old program you may have heard of as wonders, and so it's outdated. Even if we were to continue to go with that company, we would need the updated version.  But they're finding that to meet the needs of the students, to be able to meet all levels here, the two programs that we're looking at are,  holistic and and providing that for our teachers and our students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Holistic, not being whole language, I hope.

[14627-179] Stephanie Hurst | Literacy specialist, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Holistic, not being whole language, I hope.
TEXT> No, not whole language. Holistic and meeting each aspect. So for example, Wit and wisdom has the program foundations that we implemented last year. We started using that. That is the explicit phonics instruction. And then they also have the wit and wisdom portion that we're looking at now, which is the writing and the comprehension portion of that. So those go together quite nicely. Cornelia Kayla is, I like to say it slower. I'm learning because up here, people, my accent gets it a little lost, but the Kayla portion has all of these embedded within their one program, so it's not two separate programs.  Not to be one is not superior to the other. It's just really what works best for our students in our district.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So great. I look forward to hearing more about this.

[14627-183] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-15
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> I  have a question about what this looks like on the student side.  Is does this curriculum include  features like gamification or  targets to win prizes to get the students more engaged with reading? And the reason why I'm asking is I'm thinking of the program that made me love reading in elementary school called Accelerated Reader. Oh yeah, where you read a book, you take a test on comprehension. If you pass comprehensive test, you get points and your points add up to toppings on your ice cream sundae at the end of the school year. So I'm just saying it was it was it was the character.
NEXT> Stephanie Hurst: I remember Accelerated Reader. So and we had the bucket program, I believe, where Pizza Hut would give us these little vouchers and we could go eat pizza if we

[14627-190] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: waiver that we have to provide showing that we personally have insurance. It kind of highlights the complications and the intricacies of just having parents drive. Many have offered to help, and we appreciate that. When we drive, as we're fully vetted, insured and. Also.
TEXT> You know, Corey checked and everything has school employees. That's the safest way to go right now, as advised by council. But we're we're exploring all the options and reaching out to other communities.  Legal counsel and New Hampshire School Board for for solutions on that. But  so far so good. And  we also, I can't say enough about the drivers during the entire  Covid situation and things like that. They've they've always been there. They just steadfast and, you know, determined to to to get the kids there all the time.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: I have a question.

[14627-282] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: We did we did talk about taking half of it. We ended up being able to fund that additional program from local budget. Okay. So never did not have to come to the board to utilize that trust. It still has a balance of $650,000.
TEXT> Thank you. And so then I have another follow up question is, could that trust be used in any way to alleviate some of the, what some parents are seeing as a crisis for special ed students in terms of staffing for case managers and attention for the students with their IEPs.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: I yeah, that's a good question.

[14630-60] William Lupini | Consultant conducting the SAU 6 organizational and staffing study (ASR | 2022-09-29
PREV> Steven Horsky: I have from this brief presentation is the, similar demographics. I noticed that you state mass. And Maine and I'm curious as to why, Vermont wasn't mentioned. Is it due to their way that their governance is restructured their districts, or is it just not?
TEXT> Yeah. No, no, I shouldn't have mentioned them. And we will. I mean, we are we're looking for districts and if they're  and demographics and obviously similar size and similar kinds of organizational structure and that was that was my fault for not mentioning Vermont as well, that we'll take a look at at all at all of those  places and all of those organizational structures. I'll give you an example. I mean, it's very different in some ways, but but there are some similarities  in terms of, of of your student size and student numbers and in terms of the way the essay been organized historically with, say, 21 that I was in. Now, the demographics for Hampton area are obviously very different. But but there are I think there are some pieces even to to that  say that that might be helpful for us to lay out in terms of, of, of our recommendations to you. So we we will. And that was my fault for neglecting Vermont. Thank you.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Anybody else. And so this the product then is a written report.

[14654-28] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [0] and runs  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We can.
TEXT> Then we'll respond back on that. Yeah. Thank you.  Any further citizens comments? All right. Seeing none, we are going to move on to the student rep reports.
NEXT> Unidentified: So bluff just had their school picture day today. They're also doing a reading contest with some really cool prizes. And Disney just had auditions for this year's play. Oh.

[14654-47] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I had Josh, and then Whitney' [ | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Good. Anything else from the board? All right.
TEXT> I  have a question about the accountability plan for these for these funds.  And does the does the administration already have a strategy or have have plans been have you started to put plans in place for the accountability plan that we need for the state? And then also, can you explain again how  exactly putting the funds into these, into the into the reserve fund, the energy fund and the transportation fund,  meet the requirements of receiving the grant under under state bill for 20 to address student achievement needs. And improve outcomes? I just I just went back to the SB 420 and read how it said that you have. We shall provide a plan to the Department of Education outlining how district intends to improve outcomes. And. While I think that when I when I saw this, I was like, well, this is a really good use for the money, but I don't know if we're following the rules. So I just want to get assurances from the administration that we are sure.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So in terms of we have met and we've talked about the alignment of the accountability plan and how it falls into what we're currently doing with our grant strategic

[14654-89] Arlene Hawkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified, ASR 'Arlington Hawkins for  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right. I've seen some hands from the public, so I'm going to start over here. We'll just have you. I know you've been up before, but just naming Ward again.
TEXT> Just so sure. Arlington Hawkins for Ward three. Thank you. I also would like to address that Senate bill 420. I did some research and I read the bill, and there was an a portion of the bill that I believe is very specific in terms of how the funding should be allocated. And I just want to read bits and pieces, not, trust me, not the whole bill. In order to receive this need grant, the school district shall provide a plan to the Department of of how the district intends to improve the educational achievement of students. It then goes on to say that the department will provide an accountability plan, which you mentioned, to generate data that measures student academic achievement and growth of knowledge and skills in reading and language arts and or math in grades three through eight and one grade level at the high school. It also goes on to say there has to  assessment that identifies the pupils range of learning with objective data to use, and improving instruction and learning. And you've heard me come up before and talk about teaching and learning. The primary goal of this grant is to improve student achievement, and to help the school district to have funding for successful best practice student learning approaches.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Where is the match of your proposal and your proposed allocations to satisfy that last sentence? I know there are needs capital needs. You have a capital reserve. Transportation reserve.

[14654-94] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Richard Seaman: our regular education, because if we have to fix a roof for $200,000, we got to find it somewhere within the local budget, which means we're going to have to shut down something else within the local budget that we otherwise had planned to do.
TEXT> This gives the ability within the local budget to continue to have in place the investment strategies, the things that we are proved in the budget and not run the risk of being knocked sideways because of a surprise. So the money, in effect is doing exactly what they're saying, which is keeping it focused on education, not having to be concerned when we get a leak in the roof over a desired when we find that a bus is stop operating, but we need to go buy one, and having to take that out of something else we have in the budget, I believe it's absolutely a very appropriate use for it. And what they're asking for in here is they provided the the summary. And maybe you've also seen this that says here's the criteria. What was your starting criteria. What was your ending criteria as it relates to the performance  of the kids from the as you said, second through fifth, I think it is. And then 11th grade. So we have the ability to say that what we intended, the beginning of the year is what we're going to do over the course of the year, and we can track that and we can report back out on it. I think it gives us that ability to ensure we get to do what we had planned to do in the budget and not be pushed aside because propane prices go up by another, you know, $100,000.
NEXT> Unidentified: On respond.

[14654-96] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'Heather.' [446] -> [447] 'T | 2022-10-05
PREV> Unidentified: On respond.
TEXT> Well, I'd like to add to that one of the reasons why I one of the reasons I'm supporting this is because I've been in this town for a long time, and historically, and we are not a wealthy community. And when capital improvement needs or bus needs come before us, it's the taxpayers that vote. Whether or not we allocate money on those weren't articles. If the if the community says, no, we do not want to approve that warrant article, then like Richard said, you have to go and we have to find cuts to fix the problem. And historically we've had just  I think on some occasions, some draconian cuts that have occurred  because the board and the administration has had to figure out a way to get the money to meet those needs. And the children do suffer.  I think when programs are not consistent, when you have to reallocate teachers. And so what I see as a board member is that we want to make sure that there's consistency in learning and that we can absolutely support the programs that we are putting in and supporting, and we'll be able to continue to do that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: There has never been a capital reserve fund. It's shockingly we haven't had that. And we a few years ago with other board members, we made it a priority to

[14654-97] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'Heather.' [446] -> [447] 'T | 2022-10-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: And so what I see as a board member is that we want to make sure that there's consistency in learning and that we can absolutely support the programs that we are putting in and supporting, and we'll be able to continue to do that.
TEXT> There has never been a capital reserve fund. It's shockingly we haven't had that. And we a few years ago  with other board members, we made it a priority to  initiate that fund, to not have the shocks to the taxpayers or the school system. So  it's just being what I see as fiscally responsible and responsible to our students. And it seems like an opportunity to do a lot. But I that's what I'm hearing from you, is that we should be taking this money and doing something with it. But it's we won't be able to use that money forever. It's going to go away unless we we won't be able to keep a program going. If we initiate it, we won't be able to keep a teacher if we hire them just because of budget restrictions. So that's why I'm supporting the allocation of the funds this way.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I totally understand what you're saying. It's like robbing Peter to pay Paul because you don't want to. Leaking roof I understand that. I look at where our students are

[14654-98] Arlene Hawkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified, ASR 'Arlington Hawkins for  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: away unless we we won't be able to keep a program going. If we initiate it, we won't be able to keep a teacher if we hire them just because of budget restrictions. So that's why I'm supporting the allocation of the funds this way.
TEXT> I totally understand what you're saying. It's like robbing Peter to pay Paul because you don't want  to. Leaking roof I understand that. I look at where our students are achieving. They are below their way, below the average, the norm, whatever phraseology you want to use. And I can't help but believe once students and their families and the community sees achievement, success, the students are doing well. Those other issues are easier to get through, I understand. Plus people moving into a community look at, they don't look at the building, they'll drive by it, but they look at the achievement scores for our children. The school board. In my opinion, you are the advocates for our children. The fact that our kids got our community, got this funding because we are in need is enough of a message to say we need to put in programs, we need to put in supports, we need to put in coaching for our kids, our teachers, so that that gap narrows. There is a capital reserve fund, I believe. Do you know how much is in that fund right now? Not counting this funding.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: $500,000.

[14654-104] Arlene Hawkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified, ASR 'Arlington Hawkins for  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Richard Seaman: Approximately $230,000.
TEXT> 230,000. The energy trust fund. I understand the cost of energy is out of control, but I still believe it's doing a disservice to our children and their families. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Can I. Speak to that? Apparently I am for this plan as well. I think right now we're lucky to have some Covid money, as they call it, Esser money

[14654-141] Tom Rock | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified 'Tom Rock, Ward two' [225];  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Richard Seaman: use and saying thank you. We're just going to to let it out of the school district. We're saying, let's retain it within the school district and try to use it to to better manage the ups and downs of budgeting as it goes forward.
TEXT> So when I read your mission statement as the school board, not as administrators,  one of the things that you say is you value the school culture and encourage students to reach their highest level of excellence.  You're also committed to developing the critical thinking and communication skills needed for success in the 21st century, and you also recognize the importance of having real world type challenges to be accomplished with individual creativity and the spirit of collaboration. So nowhere in there does it say that you would be so concerned about the budget that you would not take this money and use it for the education of the students? Your mission as student based.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: And frank first. And then.

[14654-154] David Putnam | Public commenter, Ward 2, former long-time school board member (chair: | 2022-10-05
PREV> Richard Seaman: what we're saying here is keep it within the school district to ensure we don't have any of the ups and downs and investments we want to do, which allows us to continue to do the strategies of the improvement we're trying to do here.
TEXT> So I understand exactly what you're saying, and I agree that we should receive the money, just that when we read this part of the bill, it it is not specifically laying it out the same way. It's more specifically wishing for us to use the money to to improve student achievement, because there's always a conversation statewide in every community in the state of how much more our students have to improve themselves. And this is the way some of the some money is going to be used for that. Granted, I know it takes a long time, sometimes more than a couple of years, to develop new plans, getting new research materials and student materials so that you can work on a new plan for student achievement. I get that, and this is you don't have a lot of time to do this here. But I just want I think, I think we should have a clear approval from a legal authority coming from the state that we're doing the right thing with this money without tying ourselves to returning it,  or using it to, lower the tax rate, because I don't believe that that is going to help the community at all.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. I had Josh, and then Whitney.

[14654-175] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter asking whether the board had already v | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Wanted to ultimately it's that's what we're here for tonight and that's what the meeting.
TEXT> Right. I thought that had you guys had already voted not to. But I just want to again. And I think asking for legal opinion is really wonderful at this point because the primary goal is to improve student achievement. And they're asking for data and assessment. Thank you. I'm done.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you.

[14654-177] Rob Lovett Jr. | Public commenter, Ward 2 (uncertain - ASR 'Rob Leavitt, Ward two' [289 | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> Rob Leavitt, Ward two. My question is really more rhetorical. It seems like right now the two on the table are give the money back to the taxpayers or put it away in a rainy day fund. Are there any other options on the table right now that have been discussed with teachers, parents, students? Any other options as far as how we could utilize this to improve the learning experience for the students? So it's fairly rhetorical. I don't need a response, but something that we should probably think about before this comes back again on the 20th. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: All right. I don't see any anything further from the public. Eric, what do we do? Motion was this to the.

[14654-190] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Stephen made the second' [15];  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: and we have our answer from the attorney that we can proceed. Then we can proceed with the meeting on the 20th. But if the attorney comes back and says this is not a legal use of the funds, what what will we do then?
TEXT> We need to have a special hearing no matter what in advance of of this. That's the the point. When we crafted this, we were doing we were doing it under the good faith that we're doing it correctly. And. It to be quite honest, it's I understand everybody's concerns. And I can it's like we come here, we meet and we do our job and we, we sit here and we try to come up with ways. We came up with a budget that has a lot of the the substance of creating good growth and change for our students. And then the state kind of slaps us in the face right now, because that's kind of how I'm taking. It's great we're getting the money, but now we're having questions if we're being handcuffed and we were trying to be semi smart with a windfall of 400 plus zero $0 to the district, and I appreciate the community input on it. But it's almost like the state did this in a, in a fashion where it's semi hurried on their part and we're paying the price, to be quite honest.
NEXT> Unidentified: But we.

[14654-222] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'Heather.' [446] -> [447] 'T | 2022-10-05
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Matt Upton. So just so it's completely clear what the expectations are, is that we want Matt Upton to write something out, to say it, but write it out that he approves,  with our plan or a potential plan,  if possible, get clarification in writing from the Department of Education as well. And when we represent, I think it would be helpful if we do just for the for the public good is we do kind of a quick synopsis of all the changes that we're making, that we're implementing  to meet those achievement goals. And,  there's a lot there's a lot that's going on. And I think a lot of people in the room don't know what's going on. And it's behooves us, particularly in a discussion where it's a concern whether or not we're meeting our students needs, talking about the initiatives that we're putting in place and the curriculum changes. And, so those are the things that I would like to see completed or  discussed at the next meeting.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Great. Further discussion. All right. Seeing none. All those in favor?

[14654-227] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: not the lowest, not the highest. This is information that we presented to the board last, last November at a retreat. Also you can see the PS 80 data as well in the region, and you can see where Stevens is in comparison to that.
TEXT> This is important because the board made this a focus for the past couple of years. We we spoke about the gathering of the state and forming everything that we do.  We also  spoke about things that we're doing with the community college.  Linkage to the tech center.  This was what drove  the visioning committee that you heard about  this presentation and leading into the spring. This is a student,  actual student, and there are several of them  who have multiple,  almost an associate's degree at  the community college when they graduate Stevens High School, due to the alignment, the historic alignment and success rate we've had with that. This is a point that we've also made  consistently that I think we need to do a better job  showing what our students do,  and  and we're working on that. Okay. So we go forward. This is the  region ten. All the alignment things that we've done. The counselors okay.  And also with, coming up with the  program and exploring having the eighth graders access to school.  This slide shows very, very clearly the relationship between Advanced Placement courses and kids,  students who get qualifying scores. 26 students took 30 tests. And  in 2020 and 11 kids get qualifying scores three,  three, 4 or 5 versus in the same year.  Minimally, 125 students got college credit just from taking sociology, statistics, composition in  other courses already at Stevens High School. Yes.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Are there. Are there any AP classes missing from this list or these all that are offered?

[14654-235] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the committee that we just sent out correspondence to everyone, every parent and guardian in the district and every staff member to join us as part of the committees as well, to put a plan in place to bring to the board by November, 16th.
TEXT> This is the  all the studies talking about  high risk students impacts on poverty and,  and how to  intercede on behalf of students. This is the first configuration that we did, looking at the efficiencies gained if we restructured  the the districts so that students went to each elementary school and we would have more,  focused interventions, we would also have more,  consistency of teaching at grade level,  better, better  resiliency for historic turnover that we've had in the district and consistency with mentors when we if, if and when we lose  teachers. This is a new slide that went out. We also put that in your in your board packets and for people here in the audience. And it can be seen online as well.  This is where we are with two restructuring models. We looked at current numbers  to give to give the  community kind of a taste of where we're going. And there are some things in these slides that I  want to, you know, you know, explain to folks. But I also would like to impress upon the people at home to, to take the survey, reach out to us,  and we're trying to have committees that will also guide the work and instruct the board. Many of the board members are on these same committees right with us.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So when you look at the the restructure model two, the one with the yellow band and the lower part of the screen, this is the this is a similar

[14654-242] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of class time within the same calendar year because of the increase of meeting times. The thought also being that the continuity of layering of building block type courses for mathematics, foreign language instruction and the like, you would have consistency all the way through.
TEXT> The teacher would also have more time to build a rapport with the student, have interventions and a lot more success. So  that would also require in this process, if you're going to change the meeting times, you have to review the entire graduation profile.  This is something that has been overdue, and we've already discussed it before this of looking at how many courses we offer, what is the core academic, how many levels of math, for example, do we need when someone enters as a freshman? What are the electives?  Are there more offerings that we need? And this has been surfaced, as people mentioned before with the Tech Advisory Envisioning Committee, you know, so we have the right amount of tech classes. Are there more tech classes we could offer that have make us more competitive  in fields of booming fields, such as health sciences, and how do we make sure our kids can access those? So those are things that also tie into the survey in this group. And if you if that is up your rally, please, please join us folks at home.  So.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is the full survey that's going out. Basically, it's just identifying where where you are, where your kids are in school, what what what you do. And if you

[14654-274] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'So body [Bonnie] made the motio | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: But they all they all have they follow the national guidance standards, in the guidance model. So, so they do that.
TEXT> So this is, this, is this a program that,  also gives the lets the kids explore careers or  the personality types. Do they, are they tested on that? And then the counselors help them to decide whether they're going to college or if they or some kids can't go to college, are they going to take it?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So the learning inventory, all all those types of things, are there common things that are done? Okay. Particularly in the we also have a program called Navy that

[14654-280] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [0] and runs  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. No, I, I, I very much agree with that.
TEXT> Any questions or comments for the visiting committee? That's the reports from our subcommittees. Item number two is the third and final read of two policies. You can start with JIJICD, which is our student discipline. Okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I might make a motion that we move j I see the final approval.

[14654-287] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So we're. Still confident.
TEXT> It's there's there's still the kids, the students. Sorry. Long day. The students still the regular discipline code applies. And that was something that they tried to do and offer for folks not to get out of it, but to follow up so that they, in effect, pay back their debt to, to the school community. And that's that's how that's offered. But I see it completely in line with that.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Anything further? All right. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? Thank you. Next is policy J. I see k Frank.

[14654-318] Michael Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6, presenting as the curriculum 'team of | 2022-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: So data teams or their data teams to look at what's going on and where they can.
TEXT> And we do I believe we have the added right for a data assessment. We do person. Yeah. But we also have teachers who are working in PLCs to look at data and look at their own data. And, and  and so they're they're by subject matter and grade looking at their own instruction, looking at student performance and and making those line up.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Tell quick story. I had a student who was a special ed student who had the highest science kneecap scores in the school. And she was she was a special

[14654-343] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> So I'm going to talk about the  I want to go from the get to go to just a couple. Of slides here. Don't you get it. Thank you. All right. So what I just want to talk about I want to focus in on some of the other, other, other points that were made. You saw you saw that that,  the curriculum data that. And I just want to reiterate what people have said, but also add a layer. Okay. Where where we're talking about,  we still are measure. Okay. You're you're talking about normative referencing your local low local references, state standards and national standards. And our our data consistently has been a little bit lower. It needs improvement. Enough said. We don't need to belabor it. One of the things that we and there are several reasons why why restructuring came up in the first place  on the first round. And they're still relevant right now.  We we need to look at ways in which there are there are three major historical factors that deeply affect  the success in academic achievement of the students in Claremont.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: One is the historical turnover that we've alluded to before, to 20 plus percent of staff turning over on a regular basis for a variety of reasons, that that that's

[14654-357] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Get her for everybody.
TEXT> You can actually see that if you look at bluff right now overall on on that slide.  I don't like that. I know it in my head.  But if you look at at bluff, you're going to see at  fifth grade, if you look at the numbers across from the bottom slide that you see 29 teachers, okay. That's two. There's 29 students, there's two teachers there. There's two teachers in the one with 24 class sizes. 12. You go all the way across. There's 27 students in the fifth grade. There's only one class in the fifth grade right now. If you combine those other schools and break that out, that is you would take that number down to the reasonable  16 or so or 17. And it's it's better for all students, but it's also better to balance the road. And that is no knock on the teacher who is very, very experienced and outstanding. But I picture that where you're modeling, everyone's evened out, and there's more time for that person  to mentor other folks and everything like that, so that that's that's what we're hoping that we're going to gain. And that's what we're very upbeat about.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Can you can you also I'm sorry I'm jumping in. Yeah. Somebody else has their hand up.

[14654-364] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Stephen made the second' [15];  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that would be prohibitive in terms of code and things like that. And just about everything was to work around and was greenlit to go forward with the whole thing. So I don't throw in a lot, acted quickly, but it's been a while. Yeah.
TEXT> Where we may have to do some retrofits on toilets and so on and so forth.  It would that be able to be used with Esser money to do those as we'd be benefiting the students.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: As or Esser or other monies that I don't even think those are going to be. I don't think that's going to be prohibitive. I, I think the one thing

[14654-365] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: Where we may have to do some retrofits on toilets and so on and so forth. It would that be able to be used with Esser money to do those as we'd be benefiting the students.
TEXT> As or Esser or other monies that I don't even think those are going to be. I don't think that's going to be prohibitive. I, I think the one thing that we waited  on, and it was it was brought up in prior  subcommittee meetings and I think in board sessions is,  wouldn't we want to have if we're going to restructure, we want to make sure  that we have the right kids and the right, schools. And there also might be variation of types of outdoor play space and things like that, that we I don't think there's going to be any great variation that any kid can't access. And that's that's where we left that conversation with the A team last, last time we had it as a follow up. I don't think any of it's going to be great. Shakes all all of that stuff developmentally is meant, you know, I mean, you you just see that the kids all the way up into eighth grade, you know, one, one, one kid can look like an adult and the next one can look so so you have some  big kids, small kids, all, all places in development, you know, particularly in our mentoring. So.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Heather.

[14654-373] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Anything further on this topic? All right. Thank you. Moving on. Item number six is the cms SHS tech center. Schedule.
TEXT> Okay. So I'm going to I'm going to go to the slides. Just I know them. Well I showed you the variation. When we started before we knew that we would. What you see there is what is known as a you can see the purple, the cascading, called a waterfall schedule. That means there's a rotating. This is what we started with at the middle school. They had a rotation.  They stopped that this year. What you can see on this iteration is,  they had a  fixed first, fifth and sixth block,  which they still have the fixed six  fixed last block. Right now. That's what's enabling the eighth graders. And then he rotated the. It's boring, but I won't believe they rotated so that they could access the electrons up here to get a sample of of the of the tech center we're paying those teachers are teaching an extra section. We're paying  them additional monies, as was,  you know, allocated through Esser in the exploratory for  to keep students in school Sal and the like. So that's that's how that school started the Steven schedule,  which is currently what's known as a  traditional 4x4 block schedule with embedded flex flex block in. It  doesn't look like that. That's the one we want to move for two right now, teachers teach three classes a day and a flex where they also meet  students needs,  where our proposal is that they move to teaching 560 minute classes.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: They're actually 56 with a four minute passing time. I tried to stay parallel on this just to explain it. There's three lunches that you see there. That proposal that

[14654-375] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: in the other column. And then the 60 minutes apply to what's going on at Stevens so that a kid can take if they go to one of the one access one of those in between blocks for a year, they they would have stuff.
TEXT> What's known when you're scheduled backed up on the other side. They would be able to access a partial class, still get the text last class and come back for the other four classes at Stevens. So that's that's an effort to do that. And there's also enough room and we'll do it on the on the staffing side. And another presentation didn't want to be is even more dry and overwhelming  in the presentation to the community again tonight. But that's that's an enormous game.  For for really bolstering the access over here. And we're really excited about that.  They don't have to. And they're also in the process of doing this with committees of educators from the building. And even if the schedules are a little off, as they are right now from the middle school coming over here,  there's still access time and other times that are socially appropriate for those students to do well in the class. And I said before, this is the current middle school schedule. And this is,  Mr. Pratt's  adoption, where they are with the committee right now  in showing some of the models. And on this one, I got to use my my cheat screen here. Scuse me, but on this one you can see the,  the six period classes at the end of the day, how it stacked up the larger of busses and conceptually for people at home.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And students may be asking those teachers, maybe others or parents and what's, what is going to happen with flex. And what I really commend about this schedule is that

[14654-376] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: this one, I got to use my my cheat screen here. Scuse me, but on this one you can see the, the six period classes at the end of the day, how it stacked up the larger of busses and conceptually for people at home.
TEXT> And students may be asking those teachers, maybe others or parents and what's, what is going to happen with flex. And what I really commend about this schedule is that we're not having flex in other components drive the schedule. We're talking about the academic year long classes, which they gain almost another month, 16% increase in time on learning in the core academics and in electives that are that can be split. The electives that you can split as well. Are the equivalent of the running course, running start courses and things like that that still carry the credit load even if they meet for half a year. There's so much time in this schedule, they still meet the 45 hours to grant the credit for that. So they they get that in. Then in the core academic for every kid, I repeat every kid all the way through four years of English for access to it, whether they change that or not, depending on their, you know, say  they have an increase of of of just a tremendous increase of time on learning, building the core, not dropping out interventions, academic center supports. And  and it's just a much more conducive to success. It's tougher. And the other thing I'll mention the other things. I'm sorry I'm.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You also have you don't have the disruption okay. The traditional block schedules have where for example, I'm a freshman, I have algebra my freshman year, first semester. I don't

[14654-432] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah.
TEXT> We definitely feel and I, I  say this without being dramatic too, but, you know, I Einstein's definition of insanity is when you're doing the same thing every year and expecting different results. So we have some, some proposals that we think,  we'll really focus both what, you know, the early experience and then,  aligning  with consistency that along with a really fresh look and vibrant,  alignment of curriculum courses, looking at what we really need and also having enough fluidity in models like this one in the middle school that at the developmental level you can get it. What the student needs, what our students need in our we have we have a  challenging community. We know that we embrace it. And we're going to we're going to  teach the students, you know, how they're coming to us, but we want to make sure that every student has the opportunity to go as high as their talents and work ethic will make them. You know, for their success and what we're excited about, the Steven schedule in general aligning with the tech and is that you don't have to be any one type of kid. You don't have to choose between,  being a tech center, hands on kid and going year long and taking, you know,  the science and everything  that is needed to actually get to to be that engineer.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You're not going to miss a beat on everything. That's that's what we're that's that's what we're really excited about. And, in the schedule, teachers have an additional class that

[14654-453] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Is that anything the tech here can help build help.
TEXT> That's great. Question. Does a picture I saw once I had a confess I didn't know I. Yes, I do think I think it was a wooden structure. I think it's just a  pen ring.  Different shapes. One I saw was an octagon. So I, I know our kids could do it. I just, I, I don't know that they're down the road on that, but we could pursue that.
NEXT> Unidentified: That would be good.

[14654-487] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I had Josh, and then Whitney' [ | 2022-10-05
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Could these funds be used to address some of the resourcing issues we're having in special education? I've heard feedback from multiple parents of children with is that there are not adequate staff or resources for the special needs children. The children who have documented plans and stuff. Is there any way this money could be used to  fill some of the gaps that exist there? In terms of, I mean, I don't know, I'm leaving it up to you on how to be creative on how to use the funds, but could those funds be used to address some of these challenges?
NEXT> Ben Nester: I mean, I. I can say that, the, the challenges we face are our staffing and, you know, exclusively and I know that, you know, Mike and Richard and I

[14654-496] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'And frank first' [238] -> [240] | 2022-10-05
PREV> Ben Nester: They're not all at capacity in terms of students. I mean, I could go through the list.
TEXT> But I'm talking  it's not an issue one k through five, but I'm talking six, seven and eight. Do we have programing for those kids.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So at the middle school we have programing for life skills students. That's that's running that's operating again on a shoestring but it is operating. But the the biggest hole

[14654-505] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [0] and runs  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Ben Nester: we don't have a social emotional program for the high school at this at this point. But I think that's all something that I would certainly recommend we investigate as we start to think through, you know, the budget and, you know, for next year.
TEXT> I want to point out a lot of times we focus when we talk about shortcomings and things, we're falling short. I'd like to point out all the success of this school district is having  the success that we're having with regular education, with special ed, bringing these students that we can see back to Claremont and not help placing a bunch of, you know, students doing the best we can with the staff that we have,  staffing short everywhere, because I don't know that it's just a Claremont School District issue. But I think we talked about a lot of the, a lot of shortcomings that we're seeing, but we're seeing movement, in my opinion, my personal opinion. We're seeing movement in the right direction.  So I think,  the, you know, it's everything budget, student success.  The teachers we have, the staff that we have. So,  we definitely, I think, as a board, appreciate all the hard work that's being put into this district. And we don't  want to focus on shortcomings, but that's that's what that's what comes up. So I'd like to,  you know, put it out there that we thank everybody in the district that is working hard. In doing a great job. So anything anything further that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Really appreciates that.

[14681-20] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting and calls votes; Heathe | 2022-10-19
PREV> Unidentified: Better. Whitney. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. All right.
TEXT> Thank you. Oh, we are on to citizens comments. So any comments from citizens that,  not related to agenda items? Seeing none, we're going to move on to the student rep report. Sandra featuring.
NEXT> Unidentified: So from bluff. I didn't get any update from dessert. Desert is having Scholastic Book Fair this week, and they had a Unity Day today where everyone were orange to

[14681-29] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [78]-[114]; a | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: to item of the public hearing. Do we have a, public hearing and Senate bill for 20 some additional funds that are due to come to us? We have a warrant. The proposed weren't in front of us. Is it on the table as well?
TEXT> Yes, it's on the table. All the materials are on the table. Okay. So I'm going to be the one. Sure. The warrant reads to the inhabitants of the school district of the city of Claremont and the county of Sullivan, and said state qualified to vote in district affairs. You are hereby notified that pursuant to RSA one, 19973 a, the Claremont School District will hold single session Special District Meeting on Thursday, November 3rd, 2022 at 6:30 p.m. at the Claremont Middle School Gymnasium for the purpose of explanation, discussion, debate and voting on the following warrant article. Article one shall the Claremont School District vote, pursuant to RSA 1973 to raise an appropriate an additional $482,094.01 to be added to the current fiscal years operating budget for the purposes of improving student achievement. Such sum to come from the increase in the district's adequate education grants. RSA 19841 received from the State of New Hampshire in the current fiscal year pursuant to Senate Bill for 20, with no money to be raised from taxation, a majority vote is required. The school board recommends the article. This is the draft warrant that we're discussing tonight.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So I'm going to start, the public hearing. I'm going to start with any questions or comments from the public. Can you come up if you could just identify yourself

[14681-33] Arlene Hawkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified 'I'm Arlene Hawkins from War | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah, we can speak of the mix are just for TV and people at home.
TEXT> All right. First, I'd like my comments to be included in full as part of the official minutes of this meeting. Also, my question is, why is the warrant worded differently from the first warrant? I'd like to go on and say this warrant seems rather rather generic. I'm not saying you would do this, but I have seen districts where funds are put into general funds and they're used for other purposes. They're lost or they're not expended. The original warrant was rather specific in terms of where you were going to put specific monies. Perhaps this warrant should identify the areas language, arts or math most in need at the specific grade levels three through eight and one high school grade level, with specificity on improvement strategies and tools, measurable objectives and data as outlined in the Senate bill for 20. I believe the community looks forward to our schools making substantial improvement in all areas for all of our learners. I would hope these plans would also include input from each school's principals and teachers. Thank you, Candace Crawford, Ward.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Two I have two questions. The amount listed in article one of this proposed warrant, gives $482,094.01 in the Department of Education, copy online of the amounts that the districts

[14681-60] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [78]-[114]; a | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the high school schedule, much cleaner than the other one that we, we showed in what we still need to do when we have these meetings tomorrow to with the middle school team, high school team. We're going to follow up next week as well.
TEXT> With  with Chairman Sprague. And we're looking for other folks to help  contribute. There are subgroups as well. Each middle school in the high school already have a scheduling committee that that they're bouncing the ideas off. But we want to draft a survey about that. We'll have more information of what it would mean and how how it would go. We know we have to look at we're looking at that to specifically address and increase the amount of time on learning  in maybe very longer blocks, in shorter blocks, make sure we have  room for  interventions. And as everyone has mentioned,  how do we beef up the program of studies, the  the options for the students  and  also  really get that  the success rate and  in graduation rate, improving those things. All right. Now here we go for the curriculum folks. All right. So I let you take it over if you want. Okay.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So

[14681-62] Michael Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (spelling uncertain - Skillen: 'Mr. Ko | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: So
TEXT> This is just this graphic just kind of frames the what guided our thinking about the extraordinary needs grant money.  This just kind of pictures the responsibilities of the of the school district and what we're trying to accomplish. And we are basically, if you're looking at the screen on that far right part where we're working on curriculum design, trying to get  more direction for post-secondary goals and then professional development for our teachers. Oh. Thank you. Yeah. And so we'll come back to that. But the things that are in yellow are things that are already happening, that are already paid for. And the things in green are things that we would like to address with the the grant money. So currently we're assessing student student needs and getting baseline data, which we've presented in prior meetings  using I ready and some other tools. That data will continue to to assess as the year goes on. But we want to use that information to then purchase materials that's going to address the student's needs. So whether they're academic or their career focused,  and whether it's just the range from enrichment to some intensive intervention, we want to be once we once we've identified the student needs with the assessment tools we are using currently, we want to be able to intervene and move the students along their path,  whatever that may be.
NEXT> Michael Koski: And in in using those materials, we're also going to need to train our teachers up a little bit to get them using them well. And so that has some

[14681-168] Heather Pelkey | Math specialist, SAU 6 (self-identified 'Heather Pelkey, mass speciali | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Koski: Heather, would you like to speak to.
TEXT> Heather Pelkey, mass specialist for the district?  So the reason why there's only one math on there for six eight is because,  a decision was made last year that the K-5 was going to update their math and focus. So they they got updated materials this year.  Six eight decided to instead of going with math and focus, they decided to pilot a program that is problem problem based learning. And so they are  they're piloting that this year to see if it how it's working for their students, for the Claremont students and  and what the success rate will be. It's a completely it's a shift in  practice and and what  and expectations. And so that's why there's only that. And they did look at different programs for that with me this summer and decide on illustrative math to pilot this year. And  so that's why there's only one there. And like I said, the K-5, the decision was made before  to just update, the math in focus. So that's why there is it. One for the elementary school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I appreciate the clarification.

[14681-179] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Frank, first' [198] -> [199 | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: Hold on? Hold. Stephen made a motion. So we either need a second.
TEXT> I'll second I'll second it for the sake of discussion.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Okay. So now we're on to further discussion.

[14681-187] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I had Whitney and Josh' [356] - | 2022-10-19
PREV> Joshua Lambert: them in our general funds this week. It's a problem because we don't know exactly what we're going to purchase with these funds. I don't we can't push this out much further. We have a deadline to get this or we lose it completely. So.
TEXT> I agree with Josh. And I,  I just want to clarify the way that Warren is written. It says that this money is supposed to be used for the purposes of improving student achievement. And, Mr. Kosky presented to us in highlighted in green, these are some of the plans for using this money to address improving student achievement.  But before we officially spend this money on what we have highlighted here in green, the the US as the board would have to approve any of those actions, like the purchase of specific materials. I guess the purchase of specific shows is pretty much all that's we'd have to approve this on this list. Curriculum. Okay. Curriculum and the curriculum. So the the materials that are purchasing are curriculum materials, not just supports.
NEXT> Michael Koski: Both both curriculum and the the proposal is to purchase curricula and support materials.

[14681-198] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I had Whitney and Josh' [356] - | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Koski: Yeah. And we would be those are currently in pilot. We'll get the teacher input and then we'll bring that to the board.
TEXT> And at this point you've seen the template or whatever form you need to fill out for your accountability. Yes. To to let the state know that we're using these funds for these programs. And these programs are meant to improve student achievement. And we're measuring.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That and that. And that's what I was referring to. It's a very tight pre-populated. It shows our old scores. It shows what you have to measure. It shows the

[14681-200] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I had Whitney and Josh' [356] - | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: what you have to measure. It shows the grades. It's it's very formulaic and just I think it's as others have said, it's it's the go ahead to get on this as soon as possible in the timeline because it does expire if we don't.
TEXT> Well, with that information, I think that the warrant addresses the concerns I had two weeks ago in terms of making sure that we were obeying state Senate bill for 20 to improve student achievement. I  do think that the warrant is a little vague, but I think that since we have improving student achievement in here and knowing that we have the extra accountability step for the board approving curriculum before it's purchased, I feel satisfied with the way the article, with the way the warrant is right now. Well, yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[14681-210] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified 'Candace Crawford, Ward two' | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: Did I have anybody from the public? Okay, let's start with candy.
TEXT> Candy. Crawford board two I agree 100%.  I am supportive of education, and I am supportive of getting these dollars and using it to improve student achievement. My concern  is, and I'm trying to figure it out, the plan  that Mr. Kosky had,  it sounds like you were saying  that this money from this extraordinary grant could be used to fast forward the, getting of new curricula,  that you're testing some of it this year, you would be spending it next year to, to actually buy the curriculum if it was approved. However,  if you took this extraordinary money, you could buy it this year instead so that you'd be ahead of the game.  One of my concerns with the way the warrant article was written, it seemed very, fudged because, I mean, it said to continue  just to continue spending.  According to what they just I don't have it in front of me, but it it wasn't specifically to. Improve or to, to  make a significant effort to improve these test scores or to improve the learning of of the children and to, get a get made some progress here and, and get some achievement. These kids,  need it. And so that's what was I wasn't sure with the war article what was being addressed.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[14681-213] Arlene Hawkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified 'I'm Arlene Hawkins from War | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> Arlene Hawkins, Ward three. First, I'd like to commend you guys for tabling the discussion on the warrant. I think you're right. You need to. It's important to use the funds specifically to improve student achievement. So I really commend all of you for doing that.  I hear curriculum being purchased, program being purchased. And, Mr. Caskey, I'm thinking curriculum is not something you purchase. Am I right?
NEXT> Michael Koski: You're right. We are not purchasing curriculum.

[14681-215] Arlene Hawkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified 'I'm Arlene Hawkins from War | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Koski: You're right. We are not purchasing curriculum.
TEXT> Curriculum is something that's developed in order to meet the assessment goals, the needs of the students, instructional strategies at all levels with assessment and measuring growth. Programs are purchased in order to meet the goals of the curriculum right and the outcomes developed by the state. Correct.
NEXT> Michael Koski: Yes.

[14681-217] Arlene Hawkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified 'I'm Arlene Hawkins from War | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Koski: Yes.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you. So my question would be or maybe in developing this warrant, using some of the language that's actually in the Senate bill and then saying, okay, you've got great stuff going on. Your teachers are working hard. These women are working hard. You've got dibs. You've got the state assessments, you've got the eye ready, which you're just using. I think putting programs in and assessments is really important. But more than that is giving those teachers the opportunity and the development to learn how to analyze those results. How do those results tie into meeting the objectives that are part of the curriculum and the state outcomes? Maybe this money part of it can be used in that way, because it's a direct correlation to improving student achievement. It's not just moving things ahead a year. There's already funding for this stuff, but maybe giving teachers the opportunity for articulation. And I know that's on the website horizontal and vertical articulation. So maybe a portion of this funding can be used for that.
NEXT> Michael Koski: Yeah, maybe maybe that wasn't clear. But in the lines that said professional development. Right. That's yes. So we're looking at how to use data, how to read data, how

[14681-219] Arlene Hawkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified 'I'm Arlene Hawkins from War | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Koski: Yeah, maybe maybe that wasn't clear. But in the lines that said professional development. Right. That's yes. So we're looking at how to use data, how to read data, how to do the analysis so that teachers can then address their instruction.
TEXT> Because teaching is isolated first of all. Yeah. And it's busy. So giving the professionals the opportunity to identify the needs of their students and then directly meet those needs which show growth in our students achievement.
NEXT> Michael Koski: We would hope.

[14681-234] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting and calls votes; Heathe | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Koski: Yes, yes.
TEXT> So I'm going to jump in. And I haven't said a whole lot yet.  I, you know, I, I kind of confused. We're looking at some money that we've gotten from the state to enhance the education of kids, and I, I don't really understand the pushback. Warren articles are in often very vague  and not very specific because like you said, if the teacher is out and you need to pay, you know, you need to use some of the money here or there if if you put very specific guidelines and restrictions on award article, you're not able to you're not going to be able to use the money if maybe the books cost less than what we had expected. Or maybe there aren't as many teachers that go to the professional development. So leaving it open to being able to use this money to help kids. And with the board kind of getting reports back to make sure we're doing correctly, it's not I don't see the issue with that. This, you know, we're looking to spend this money to help educate all the kids in the district. I'm just a little confused at the pushback. I saw Heather first, and then.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Do we have an opportunity to build build some safeguards into the wording of the warrant that because what is sounded like is that every penny was accounted for, and

[14681-236] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting and calls votes; Heathe | 2022-10-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: to be some, some guardrails and to be very specific in how the dollars are going to be spent with an opportunity to, to create, flexibility if those dollars aren't spent so that the board can have an idea of where the dollars are going.
TEXT> If this money had come in before the budget was finalized, it wouldn't even be the same questions. This money came after the budget was finalized. If this money had come and we had anticipated this money when we finalized the budget, we wouldn't even have these questions of where's this penny going? Where's that penny going? Just so that's I mean, that's it's all being used to further the kids education. I had Whitney and Josh.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: So I. I see the I see the point you're making is very valid of just the, the worry and the concern about how we're going to hold the, our

[14681-237] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I had Whitney and Josh' [356] - | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: we had anticipated this money when we finalized the budget, we wouldn't even have these questions of where's this penny going? Where's that penny going? Just so that's I mean, that's it's all being used to further the kids education. I had Whitney and Josh.
TEXT> So I. I see the I see the point you're making is very valid of just the, the worry and the concern about how we're going to hold the, our held ourselves accountable to how every penny is spent. So I'm wondering if,  I,  I'm not very uncomfortable with the vague wording here because it's if we have improving student achievement specifically in here as a purpose, and then we have the word pursuant, which literally means like in accordance with and according to the law set out by Senate Bill 420. So I think that as long as the administration acts in compliance with the way this is written, and especially using those two clauses, improving student achievement pursuant to Senate Bill for 20, that we would be in compliance, which is kind of what I wanted to want it to be. But also, could we ask the board just for for our own peace of mind on the Academy piece? Could we ask the administration, not the board? Could we ask the administration to include in our wording in our board meetings coming up, some or not? I'm I'm not going to go on the wording right now, but including our board meetings from here on out, some kind of update on the accountability report that you will have to build in to be in compliance with Senate Bill 420. Does that make sense?
NEXT> Michael Koski: Absolutely.

[14681-247] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I had Whitney and Josh' [356] - | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Koski: I think it's.
TEXT> For June 30th, something like that. What that's I mean, this is kind of like putting trust in the administration. But if between now and June of next year, we have on our meeting agenda an item or as part of the superintendent's report and update on the accountability report of Senate Bill for 20 to know how the money is spent so that by June 1st next year, 30 days before it's ending, we can see like, oh, they've only spent, I don't know, 382,000. What's up with the other 100? We still have a little bit of time to ask them, you know, or to make sure that it's spent in the right way. I, I'm with Mr. patrons point that we don't want to  put into the warrant exactly how we're going to spend every penny to give ourselves that flexibility. Like if these English and math initiatives end up, we end up doing achieving everything in the green highlight and still have a little bit money left over. Maybe we can improve student achievement in science, you know, and use a little bit of money to push it over there. And it still would be in compliance with Senate Bill 420. Does that make sense?
NEXT> Unidentified: So if the voters do not approve the warrant.

[14681-260] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (Koski: 'I don't disagree with you, Stev | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: Stephen, you're next.
TEXT> So you're 110% right. Mike, when you said we wouldn't even be having this conversation because it would have already been built in, which means the tax rate would have already been adjusted for the money. When we went out at deliberative session, we funded this district to the best of our ability with the money that we had and that we knew was coming. So at that time, we told the voters, the citizens and the the schools, everybody that we thought that we could educate our children properly with the budget that was passed, now the state comes in and says, here's some extra money. Yes, it's going to be a debate. After being here two weeks ago under the perception that we were doing the right thing. Yeah. Now there is a lot of question because it felt like we got run over, like by a bus when we were trying to do something that made sense. This makes sense, I get it, but I can see why people want it tightened up. Last two weeks ago, we were too tight on where where the money was going and it was being used in correctly.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Now we're here and it's very loosely worded and every time you leave it too wide open, it's a blank check. And we need to have some sort of accountability

[14681-261] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (Koski: 'I don't disagree with you, Stev | 2022-10-19
PREV> Steven Horsky: trying to do something that made sense. This makes sense, I get it, but I can see why people want it tightened up. Last two weeks ago, we were too tight on where where the money was going and it was being used in correctly.
TEXT> Now we're here and it's very loosely worded and every time you leave it too wide open, it's a blank check. And we need to have some sort of accountability to know where the funds are going. Exactly. To almost, almost very specifically because if you don't, it does get moved around. And that's the thing I think we're trying to avoid. We're not trying to overdo what the specifics is, but let's say it's going into a science program because that's what we haven't started to develop. That makes more sense to me than saying we're going to use it to speed up the process of the stuff that we're already supposed to be budgeting for. I would rather implement something that's actually going to benefit the kids, such as science or social studies, where we know we're lacking it. That's just it seems like common sense to me, because this means we're coming ahead where we're behind in the science and social studies, not putting the money into buying the materials for the stuff that we should already be budgeting for.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I would also say that if you look at any of these, adequacy, a any of these other aids that we get, there's probably very specific similar wording in those

[14681-265] Arlene Hawkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified 'I'm Arlene Hawkins from War | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: I got one more comment from the public. And I think we need to take the the motion is to table this.
TEXT> And I, I just want to compliment you guys. You spent a lot of time on this. So I hope you're not feeling that. Public comments are trying to say that no one is doing their job. You guys are working really hard in terms of the wording of the warrant that it is tabled. Language arts and math go across all content areas across science, social studies. So just giving it that the parameter so it's not off the tracks, as Mr. Husky said gives you that flexibility to use the funding for student achievement. So I do admire the work you've put into this. You really have spent a lot of time and thank you for that.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So Stevens motion and second by Frank was to table this if we table this at this point, what is the I forget what the deadline is for having to

[14681-269] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Are you ready for Bonnie now?'  | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: it could have gone to a other trust and things like that. But this is when looking at it the safest route, was to, to make the changes for this. And that is what we wanted to do. So and that's, that's what we did.
TEXT> So I'd like to say something. So first of all, I thought. Coming in here today, this warrant was going to be written with the different articles with, you know, capital improvements in the transportation, all that like last week. So no, Pete told me there was going to be a change so I could, you know, to talk about it with someone. I think these are educators. They know what they're doing. They want to do a good job and they want to stay. And we need the teachers. And this is for the children. It's improving their achievement. This is a gift, and I think we should let them have it. Like, let's not blow it. That's that's what I think. I think also,  I don't know if we could do this, but the last sentence, it says with no money to be raised from taxation, could that be a little bolder or larger so the public could they may read right over that and not know because some people think, what's it going to do?
NEXT> Unidentified: My dad.

[14681-290] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I had Whitney and Josh' [356] - | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: time that we had was follow the language. Okay. And put this this warrant together. We put another one. Previously together. We talked to council, we talked to other administrators. We looked around at what people were doing, and we had we made this one.
TEXT> So just to clarify how the state intends, like what the state plans to do with this, if we accept,  the warrant and the money is used in the general funds to improve student achievement, that's one option. But if the voters say no and they vote again, they vote down article one, then that money just goes right back into the tax rate. Not that we lose it. It goes back to the state. It just reduces the tax, does.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Not go into student.

[14681-296] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I had Whitney and Josh' [356] - | 2022-10-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: And so it has to be a very compelling.
TEXT> To yeah. We have to convince the public to spend the money on student achievement versus because.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The questions that I brought up that that felt hostile are the very same questions that are going to be brought up that will feel hostile. And so.

[14681-301] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member ('I agree with Josh' [283] after [280]-[ | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: I guess in.
TEXT> The defenses were either spending this money on student achievement or taxpayers get like $1.50 off their yearly tax rate.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: 87.

[14681-305] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting and calls votes; Heathe | 2022-10-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: district shall provide a plan to the Department of Education outlining how the district intends to improve the educational achievement of students. I don't see where it says. If you don't, it goes back to the taxpayers. I think that's where you need legal counsel.
TEXT> If we're so we're we're choosing to accept this money. And if this is the proposal of how to spend the money and how to use the money, if the taxpayer if the voting public that come to the meeting choose to say no to this warrant article, then that money has been accepted. And instead of going to the students and the teachers and the kids who need it, the money goes back to reduce the taxes by less than a dollar.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I think you need legal counsel to to rule on that in front of the in front of the population. I mean, because the it doesn't I can't read in

[14681-389] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized 'Heather' [139], [304],  | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: like we'll have those too. But, I think in general it has a for, for a pulse from, from those few people. Many of those folks were there from the start, from the original committee to, I would guesstimate, maybe a third of them, but.
TEXT> I also just wanted to voice some concerns about making sure that we message what I know the board had  seen as a value added to the restructuring is that we were going to be improving equity and social socioeconomic diversity in our schools because we have we have pockets of more concentrated poverty and what that does to student achievement. So that's a piece I think, that gets missed in the communication.  And when we talk about transitions that there are different impacts of different kinds of transitions such as soft transitions versus hard transitions. So  it's a lot of stuff a lot of data is  there's a lot of data out there, but  there are a lot of data out there about hard transitions when kids are moved to different schools because their families move versus when kids transition to different buildings. And so there could be a misconception that all transitions are the same when they're not. And also,  that this may be a fiscally neutral plan, but it's going to be  a resource allocation rich plan. And make sure that we communicate that as well, is that we're not trying to necessarily save money, but we're trying to maximize resources and,  maybe even investigating the idea of looping, for  families and teachers that have resistance to the idea of losing that connection with teachers over a period of time.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I don't know if it's a viable option, but to at least have conversations that these things have been thought about. And then finally, I want to just, I guess,

[14681-431] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Frank, first' [198] -> [199 | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the numbers I can pull. I looked at them today. I can see, you know, some of that. But we don't we don't. It's the why that you're right. Why to dig in per councilor that I agree. That's what I'm most curious about myself.
TEXT> Well, I there was back in the day when we when SB 18 was put in place, which was the raising the dropout age from 16 to 18, the state made some grants available for alternative programing for those kids that were sort of caught in the in, they were going to drop out, but now you have to stay. So what are we going to do with you? And so that's when we were at the grant for, at Stevens. And part of that, RFP was to really in order to identify what type of program you're going to be developing, you really have to analyze what why are kids dropping out? And so it's,  and I was able to come up with some pretty compelling data as to, to support the type of program we went with. But I'm just curious what what it is now, because we have the third eye only is my study was  only Manchester West.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: In.

[14681-445] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [78]-[114]; a | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: Anything further on? Restructure. All right. Moving on to item number four, which we've gone over. It's the schedule. High school? Yes.
TEXT> Yeah. So we. Yeah. So we are.  I don't have a presentation for, you know, a whole full blown on that. We will have,  an informative one,  in meetings to come when we, we look at every aspect of that and it just to, to summarize it in order to,  a schedule is obviously everything that goes on in the school, how we, allocated resources, what the expectation is for a student upon graduation. All those things, in some times when you're looking at schedules and you want to get everything in that impacts students, things are you need flexible, you know, a flex advisory, all these other types of things that we've built in.  It's it's tough to get it all in there. And that's what we have to look at. It's we know that we wish we had more offerings at the, at the tech Center as well. And we,  that is something to look at. What what electives are, what the what they aren't how  if we change schedules and we mix that, they get the time really needed for a tech course. In addition, you have to. Getting sucked into it, but you have to you have to make sure that you back that up in another block with something, something else. And we're going to explore all of that and we'll, we'll do a, presentation on all of those options.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Questions or comments. All right. I think we're on the other business, including other businesses, including any any ideas or requests for agenda items and upcoming meetings.

[14693-21] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'school board member Josh | 2022-11-03
PREV> Tracy Pope: signify by saying I are opposed. Nay. I thank you so very much. You will now review the warrant out of it. All right. One appropriation of funds. The moderator recognizes school board member Joshua and Assistant Superintendent Richardson. Joshua up to the podium. Okay.
TEXT> And  is a full text of the warrant article that was accepted by the  school board on October 19th, 2022. To the inhabitants of the school district of the city of the County of Solomon in said state Qualified Development District Affairs. You are here by that. Pursuant to Harris 81973 a plan of school district to hold a single session special School District Meeting on Thursday, November 3rd, 2022, 6:30 p.m. at the Claremont School Gymnasium for the purpose of explanation, discussion and voting on the following warrant. Article one that the Claremont School District vote pursuant to RSA 19738 to raise and appropriate an additional $482,094.01 to be added to the current fiscal year operating budget for the purposes of improving student achievement. Such songs to come from increases in the district's adequate education grant. RSA 19841 received from the State of New Hampshire and recurrent fiscal year pursuant to Senate Bill for 20, with no money to be raised from taxation required and school Board recognized as article. I'd like to take this opportunity to talk about the reasons why I am in support of this morning. As as I'm sure many of you know by now, I'm the only parent educator serving on the  school board, having recently taken on the role of classroom teacher as well as being the co-chair of the Curriculum Subcommittee of the School Board.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: I am learning every day about the trials and tribulations of piloting, approving, purchasing, and implementing new instructional programs. My school is currently going through the process of looking for

[14693-22] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'school board member Josh | 2022-11-03
PREV> Joshua Lambert: this morning. As as I'm sure many of you know by now, I'm the only parent educator serving on the school board, having recently taken on the role of classroom teacher as well as being the co-chair of the Curriculum Subcommittee of the School Board.
TEXT> I am learning every day about the trials and tribulations of piloting, approving, purchasing, and implementing new instructional programs. My school is currently going through the process of looking for a new and math assessment program. Unfortunately, the program that I wish to see implemented doesn't quite make the students their pricing. This is something that happens all too frequently when it comes to looking at programs and developing curriculums. At the public Hearing and school board meeting of October 19th. We heard from Assistant Superintendent Cassidy on how the district intends to use the $482,094.01 tonight. We have a price breakdown that shows some options being considered. I don't think anyone would argue with that, that Thurmont is in desperate need of some high quality instructional programs. With this extraordinary needs grant, the district is able to look even better. Programs that may not. It may not have been considered prior to receiving this money due to those prohibited costs. So that any come over to go with this grant allows the district to do is to implement the best programs we can for our students. It allows us to not only find programs for math, but the extra money can help us update and flush out even better programs for science and social studies with money that is higher than our district budget, without having to raise any extra from local taxes.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: And I know there are some concerns over the wording of the Warren article, and that it comes across as twice a year. Am I feeling this board member as

[14693-23] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'school board member Josh | 2022-11-03
PREV> Joshua Lambert: us to not only find programs for math, but the extra money can help us update and flush out even better programs for science and social studies with money that is higher than our district budget, without having to raise any extra from local taxes.
TEXT> And I know there are some concerns over the wording of the Warren article, and that it comes across as twice a year. Am I feeling this board member as well as the teacher? The Warren article as written is exactly how it should be. We are afforded security and the fact that the funds must be spent in accordance with RSA 19841 as written in the article with Mr. Cosby's presentation at the October 19th meeting, with the cost breakdown of two possible pathways that we were given tonight for these funds to be used for, we know that these models will be used to advance the process purchasing and implementing new instructional programs. If we take out this article anymore, and something specified in an amended article doesn't pan out by concern, is that we're right back here deliberating and voting again and having these files. As any educator will tell you that everything works out. If you type it up too much, it might not work. And trust that the administration has the best interests of our students in mind.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: I trust that when they say they're going to use these funds for the purpose of the tributes to achieve as written in this one article, they were using funds

[14693-33] Michael Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (spelling uncertain - ASR 'Assistant S | 2022-11-03
PREV> Tracy Pope: Yeah.
TEXT> Thank you. There was a spreadsheet on the back table. They picked that up. This is our proposal for this. Grant money. We're going to give the school district. We are currently. Piloting two different versions of the  curriculum in K-5. First is in the middle column, Wit and Wisdom. The second pilot program is a L a, which stands for Knowledge Language Arts. And those  when those pilots are finished, we expect to purchase one of those programs for our district program for the Language Arts. And we would like to use the straight forward, the purchase of that. So we do not have to wait until next year to purchase that. We can get better to answer our students faster and our teachers. And then below that, in each of the two columns, are  additional language. Arts materials to help our, struggling words and words who are not succeed in the classroom the way they should. And so we have additional complementary programs separate from the two. One of the two programs will be purchasing. Also in addition, you'll see that there are some behavioral supports and behavioral trainings. The teachers to assist them and help them better with classroom management. So we're focusing on the literacy portion of this state board. And we expect that the implementation and training in these programs will increase our student achievement and reloads. Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Mr.. Mr.. We have a motion and a second, and I'm now opening the debate and even wishing to host this amendment as presented. The moderator recognizes David

[14693-35] Unidentified | Unidentified - public speaker in favor of the amendment (not named on  | 2022-11-03
PREV> Tracy Pope: as presented in writing to me. And I get to open up to debate. Anyone wishing to speak against this amendment. I'm going to wait a minute until copies of amendment, and I'd like to ask this. Anyone opposed to this amendment like to speak.
TEXT> And some communities more than others, because I would. In order to help them close the gap, we need the money that we normally would not be able to raise taxes. If you live in poverty rates down like that apartment. You can probably waste locally. Climb up with some help for that. Our property tax payers. They can't afford one this money. What this memo does ensures quite clearly that the money will be utilized or c g. And for other reasons, the plan is committed is approved by the school. I think it's billboard needs to be involved because they are the one second policy towards the next policy. So I support the event. I support the collaboration and continue to be medication between on stakeholders here of the students. So thank you. What's my appropriate.  I have. Questions. About the amendment. To whom do I pose those questions? So, my I have a question related to. Whether or not this would be restrictive. If we look at this point in place that does not include science, technology, mathematics, and which used to. Target reading or language arts only,  would we be prohibited from doing so? By producing an amendment that question going to. And if.
NEXT> David Putnam: Everybody can hear me, this is why I was straight out of the statute. So I think it's fine. It's been the school board is going to have to prepare

[14693-44] David Putnam | Public participant, proponent of the amendment (moderator: 'The modera | 2022-11-03
PREV> Unidentified: Great.
TEXT> So what's what's also important to recognize in in the amendment, in the. Statute. Itself is. The requires. You to submit a plan for approval. And when. You do that, if if the plan is not approved by the state, they will inform you of that and give you advice on how you should be changing it. So it is appropriate for our students and for what's in the Senate bill. We we in this language here as of the extra curriculum, just to broaden the scope, because as we know, education, a lot of the subject matters cross over with each other. So that's important for you folks to use as a tool. It's submitting your plan, but it is always contingent on the plan that you submit for, for approval and how you're going to use the money. One other point I want to make in that area, I've learned from the state that if you already have a plan in place using money allocated by the voters and it's in your budget to improve student achievement, you can swap in the money from this fund and use the money you've already allocated towards another program in your school system, but it all has to be approved of by a plan submitted to the state, which you can't do because there won't be any plan attached to it is return this money to the taxpayers because there wasn't there money to begin with.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Mr..

[14693-47] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member defending the article as  | 2022-11-03
PREV> David Putnam: But I.
TEXT> Think I just wanted to caution everybody is that however,  we spend this money, it's going to ultimately have to be. Approved by the independent. So if they are not fond of our method of applying money to science and technology, because that's not one of the components they've listed in this point, we may not be able to spend this money on on targeted in those areas, although  I understand there is some level of flexibility they're going to allow. So I just want to just have everybody's expectations for everybody. Understand that whatever we do and the reason why it was written vaguely to begin with, was because it was absolutely no  information coming out of the Doe or the doctor as to how the artificially structured. So we tried to write it way to give us the maximum flexibility by just the  we would address student achievement. The amendment doesn't change that. And in fact, it just kind of specifies that this plan, which is all part of the process, will have to be approved, but it's going to be the DOF that's going to really well. The first is going to be the board deciding how  it wishes to spend the money and the blessing that plan.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. I think I need to ask one question to speak against this amendment. Seeing none. Anyone wishing to speak with this amendment. Mr. Blackman.

[14693-54] Tracy Pope | Claremont School District Moderator (introduced as 'Tracy, our moderat | 2022-11-03
PREV> Unidentified: I, I.
TEXT> Oppose nay. Debate. Did you have a motion and a second on amended emotion? I will read, actually, rather than reading. Everyone has a copy of this. We have a motion and a second to amend  the motion with this added language and like to have a voice vote. All those in favor of affordable. I. Have 65 on the ballot and presented. We've already had the. I'd like to have a voice vote. All those in favor  of my article, as amended by by saying I, I oppose de pastor minutes. This concludes my speaking on behalf of myself and the school district. Thank you for your attendance tonight.
NEXT> Unidentified: Welcome to adjourn.

[14727-32] Dr. Ann Wilson | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent ('Doctor Wilson | 2022-11-16
PREV> William Lupini: experiences address, these issues, these kinds of issues, and that we've, we've seen addressed in some of the exemplars that we were able to, to focus on. So I think is going to start us off with the first recommendation, which focuses on human resources.
TEXT> Yes. So I'd like to mention that the first five  recommendation, finding areas that you're going to see  really directly to human resources. And we note that your strategic plan areas of focus on contain three that really do focus on are related to human resources. And they would be recruiting and retaining the best and brightest staff possible, revamping district and school governance structures, and learning and teaching at SA to accrue student achievement. So all of these have a direct link to human resources. Our first finding,  is around a lack of clarity, consistency and timeliness that we  noted regarding essential HR functions. We also heard that recommended hirings often not processed in a timely fashion, and there was a lack of clarity and consistency regarding how to handle employee matters and concerns. So you see, we're bridging two areas here. One has to do very specifically with hiring, and the other has to do with  a major area of human resources. And, you know, people in a in a district to be paying attention to  what we say matters and concerns, we mean things like complaints, compliance with collective bargaining agreements and  implementation and compliance with board policy and state and federal laws.
NEXT> Dr. Ann Wilson: So here are for the city to establish an appropriately trained human resources lead position, a manager's position. And I can't emphasize enough that we really need to make sure

[14727-50] William Lupini | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent (uncertain spel | 2022-11-16
PREV> William Lupini: mentioned earlier, for a very long time, that I thought, I thought actually the feedback that we got from people on this, one of the scheduling and use of of meeting time and visibility, the superintendent of the superintendent, that that these are great things.
TEXT> They don't necessarily sound like a great thing up front, but they are. We heard people say we want to have meetings. We want to meet regularly. We want to have a genders. We want to have norms. We want to know at the end the kinds of things that we've made decisions on and what comes next. Right. I talked to many people in districts where principals say, we don't understand why we have so many meetings. That's not what your people in the central office and in the principals  role said. They said, we want we want to make good use of that time. We want to talk about the really important, meaty issues that are going on in the district. And the other thing that they said is we want to see the superintendent in our building. We we want him to be in our classrooms. We want him to  talk with our teachers, to talk with our students, to know what's going on and to be part of that school environment. And again, that's a tremendous positive thing for people to be saying. So the recommendations we're making is to establish regular communication channels with employees, stakeholders, whether those are newsletters, regular postings on the website, they can be all kinds of of different, different ways of doing that.
NEXT> William Lupini: Identify personnel who are responsible for making sure that the website stays current, who ultimately, you know, if if you say to me that there are 5 or 6 people

[14727-59] William Lupini | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent (uncertain spel | 2022-11-16
PREV> Dr. Ann Wilson: feeling of not having, not being responded to or not really being involved in the discussions and the planning. Who knows better what the school needs are, what a program needs, and the person who's responsible for designing, implementing, and evaluating these programs and schools.
TEXT> Thanks. So number ten involves indirect costs.  So  we we believe what we heard,  was that historically,  the districts this essay, has, has not,  taken advantage of using the indirect cost portion of grants.  Received by the districts, that is, there's a there's an ability to take a certain percentage, certain amounts in, in particular grants and use it for administration costs, those kinds of things. Laudable. The focus we heard over and over again has appears to have been on using grant dollars to support to directly support students. I guess our point in this is,  if if you need to fund certain positions or certain costs like HR,  in order to make sure that you can have teachers in front of kids, we can't think of anything that's more important to students than having a licensed teacher in front of them. Teaching subject desk. Third grade mathematics at the high school,  whatever it may be, having that person there and if, if, if we need to use some of those dollars, some of those indirect dollars that we have the ability to do to, to fund certain positions that make that happen, then I can't think of, of a better,  a better use of, of dollars on behalf of students. So we would recommend that you look carefully at, at, at the ability to, to use indirect  costs in, in certain of your grants to fund some of what we've recommended here.
NEXT> Dr. Ann Wilson: Then finally, as I mentioned earlier, there are very positive impressions thus far regarding the new Curriculum Instruction administration team. What we heard was that historically, curriculum and instruction curriculum

[14727-60] Dr. Ann Wilson | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent ('Doctor Wilson | 2022-11-16
PREV> William Lupini: of a better, a better use of, of dollars on behalf of students. So we would recommend that you look carefully at, at, at the ability to, to use indirect costs in, in certain of your grants to fund some of what we've recommended here.
TEXT> Then finally,  as I mentioned earlier, there are very positive impressions thus far regarding the new Curriculum Instruction  administration team. What we heard was that historically, curriculum and instruction  curriculum implementation. Has not been very consistent and has almost been  haphazard sometimes. And there are a lot of feelings of being overwhelmed by initiatives.  We did not see any evidence of an established curriculum review process. We didn't see evaluation of current curriculum and consideration of new adoptions, having a plan and coordinated approach. And as I said a few seconds ago,  there's a sense of people being overwhelmed with initiatives and not then having proper support for implementation with fidelity, which is what we want and is part of one of your strategic  focus areas for your strategic plan. Really, you know, improving student achievement. So our recommendations are around establishing a regular curriculum review process that's transparent to employees. And I think you've probably by now see a theme here that  communicating transparency and involvement. So involving all the key stakeholders.  A curriculum review process should be adopted by the boards with results of reviews reported regularly so that it's very, very transparent, very clear, not only to the people within the school system but the community.
NEXT> Dr. Ann Wilson: They everyone understands what the process is. And then any and all substantive curriculum changes should be then driven by that established process. And again, no surprises. Everyone on your

[14727-67] Dr. Ann Wilson | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent ('Doctor Wilson | 2022-11-16
PREV> Dr. Ann Wilson: them work together. And then finally, you know, if the school boards and the administrative team work together to engage in even some of this work, we really believe that the s will be more efficient, more focused on the various needs of the stakeholders.
TEXT> But ultimately, what we all, why we all do what we do is to improve outcomes for students.  So again, lot here, a lot to digest, a lot of really hard work for your people to do. But positive attitudes toward working together and a real desire to do what's best for the kids. So thank you.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you.

[14727-83] William Lupini | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent (uncertain spel | 2022-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> Right. And so there's, there's  there's opportunity there because most grants come with the opportunity to have some indirect impact to support the administration of the grants. So there's there's  there's clearly opportunity there.  But again, you're going to have to look at that and against what you're actually spending the grant dollars on now and make some make some choices. I think the comment I'll just repeat that we tried to emphasize is that, you know, there's different ways of having impacts on impact on kids, right? Right. Not having a teacher in the class because we can't get HR process quickly enough to do that. We lose candidates as a result that his impact on kids.  So I can't speak to the exact amount, but given given the amount of grant  amount that you have in terms of grant dollars,   my guess is there's a there's a significant  there's a significant amount that would be in play that could be part of this conversation.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[14727-159] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [28]; 'Thank  | 2022-11-16
PREV> Richard Seaman: approach that I had taken coming in is let's pump that money right back into straight educational strategies, as opposed to taking it out into paying for something else. We have the ability to do that. We're not leaving it behind, we're just reallocating it.
TEXT> And I and the the other piece to that, I don't know if if everyone picked up on it, we do it all the time. And frankly, it was great to hear it from a third party. Okay. But the there is a big difference between the financial responsibility for the grants management and then following by a strategic plan and having a purpose for what you want to do to move the needle in terms of student achievement in those two entities speaking to each other all the time, knowing what's up, being a check and a balance, that's what's it blows me away with where the team came in from, the districts they were in and the experiences they had and said, this is what we need, this is how it goes. And  in communicating that, so. Just purposefully in also particularly with with Sharon, who who does this meeting with them regularly and it's it's been it's really been a great  it's a change from the past and it's it's a welcome change. And I think the way both sides are expressing those things, it's really it's it's awesome. It really is in, in fairness. And  you hear me say this like a broken record.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There was a lot of catch up okay to do for, for for the, for the business team and a resurrection of records that literally didn't exist. Okay. So it

[14822-242] Jeff Small | Director of Technology, SAU 6 (the superintendent turns to him: 'Jeff, | 2023-01-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: You have a, you know, stuff in there for, SQL and Oracle, other types of abilities, other types of products as well. Jeff, you might help me out with some of those. Those?
TEXT> Yeah. I mean, one of the biggest time consuming pieces to are all the boy beginning of year, end of the year, any time of year reports that, have to be submitted to the state. She's really, they helped with the CRTC selection and reporting. They, What's the other one that they just. Think of it? She's responsible for all the. I foresee user security assigns, user roles, assigned access. I mean, pretty much anything power, school, anything with our student information system, any of the state reports, anything that,  doesn't seem right, any schedule changes, any, she's working with the principals. I mean, anything that you can think of is in this position, so I.
NEXT> Unidentified: I have a degree.

[14833-22] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; Frank Sprague: 'I agree with M | 2023-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: And thank you for your work. All of you.
TEXT> Any other citizens are. Not agenda items. Seeing none of your close citizens comments and move on to our student, our student representatives report. Hello, Hannah.
NEXT> Hannah Petrin: So all the. Elementary. Schools are putting on a play called Ode to Milan at the Claremont Opera House at 2 p.m. on January 21st and take it to the

[14833-82] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; Frank Sprague: 'I agree with M | 2023-01-11
PREV> Richard Seaman: Heard.
TEXT> That, you know, about the Newport Tech Center,  starting in not exactly a teacher prep, but it's a behavior of fed program where I spoke to Eric, their insurance director of, I called him the other day. He returned my call today. I spoke with him. He talked about their program that he's that they're developing for the development of our program is. But it would start off with my understanding as head of a general study geared toward education. And from there, the kids can choose guidance counselor type, direct to teacher, to paraphrase. So they kind of choose which direction they may want to go, and then they're working on their own agreements with key states, and other places, including pulling in education educators to come help and present to the program or teach the program. Where kids could come out of that program. And really similar to what Alex presented to us, we're ready to be careful professionals right out of that program or even give real college credit. So it's it sounds like a great program. I love the program.  Pretty disappointed that,
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That we didn't know. Not in the course we have already happened about that when that first the development of the program was taking place, that there was no, knowledge

[14833-95] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (recognized as 'Ste | 2023-01-11
PREV> Heather Whitney: That the other parts into.
TEXT> I would, I would just for the expansion at this point, expansion  of programing at the Tech Center be held off for this budget cycle. Half of it's already basically gone. Gone. So let's really develop and invest in a real plan 110% that we can fully support, verify that we're we're doing something that's going to make a difference, because the whole point is, is to become leaders in the surrounding communities and not continually fall behind. And we're continually falling behind because of missteps that we're making. And it's not intentional. I don't think any of this is intentional, but at the same time, we're dealing with a 10% increase in this is a large chunk of it for the expansion of the tech. And, I mean, I came from the tech. I fully support this building in its programs. I really, truly do. I hate having to be the bad guy that comes out here and says, let's cut something at the tech, let's not do something at the tech. But I have to go back to the basics of education. We have a focus on our curriculum that we need to really focus on, because at the end of the day, we need these children to be productive members of society when they get out of our our district.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Because once the matter the district. The world is theirs. And until we get the basics down, we're really handicapping ourselves by juggling so many balls, to be quite honest.

[14833-117] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; Frank Sprague: 'I agree with M | 2023-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: Correct. Same for the first time right.
TEXT> So our understanding is this year's juniors. We need that class next year the graduation. So I would wonder if as a starter, if there's any way that that position may come here. Part time to start teaching a business in algebra internship course with the kids that are here. I mean, I don't know if that could be. Is that position for most to be busy enough there?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Right. Split some time and come here to try to kick off that. It's just not there yet. Yeah, it's it's kind of hard to predict what the enrollment would

[14833-133] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (recognized as 'Ste | 2023-01-11
PREV> Michael Petrin: As the next.
TEXT> Is it. It's such a hard answer or question in my mind to how to do this in and do it smartly and wisely with the taxpayers dollar. And the reason I say that is, is because our children are not performing well in math, yet. We're working on that. We're not performing well in language arts, but we're expecting the program to be super successful in a business. Entrepreneurial, of course, but we can't get the basics of literacy and mathematics. So you can continue to keep putting money in the cart before the horse, or you put the horse in front of the car. And that's kind of what I've been saying over and over and I've been struggling with in my mind is, how do we get from point A to point B? You know, you have to you're looking at all these different things and you're you see the value in them all. But once again we're faced with a 10% increase. We have to figure out what what we're going to do. But we can't even get the basics. You're trying to build the house before you have the foundation. And I understand where rebuilding the foundation and trying to get the curriculums in place.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: And that would be if I was spending money, I would I want my house to be built on a solid foundation before I'm going to start putting in bay

[14833-134] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (recognized as 'Ste | 2023-01-11
PREV> Steven Horsky: increase. We have to figure out what what we're going to do. But we can't even get the basics. You're trying to build the house before you have the foundation. And I understand where rebuilding the foundation and trying to get the curriculums in place.
TEXT> And that would be if I was spending money, I would I want my house to be built on a solid foundation before I'm going to start putting in bay windows. And while it's nice to have those beautiful bay windows looking out, if we're not going to see the value of them because the house is falling in because of the foundation, it makes no sense. So that relates to the trades and just and we're trying to teach these these children through these programs, money management. And that's what we're here to do today. Are we going to keep putting the cart before the horse, or are we going to start having the horse pull the cart? And until we get where English language arts are, mathematics scores get up. We're just throwing money against the wall and hoping something sticks. To be quite honest. And I understand we have different demographics, different children, different needs, and you can't fit them all. It's impossible. You can't make everybody happy. We can only do the best with what we got. But at the same time, the only way to get there is to build the solid foundation first.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: Completely agree with that. But as part of a larger discussion that we've had in the past is that many kids don't process the basics the same way. So, like,

[14833-135] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member, resigning after this meeting (chair: 'I | 2023-01-11
PREV> Steven Horsky: different children, different needs, and you can't fit them all. It's impossible. You can't make everybody happy. We can only do the best with what we got. But at the same time, the only way to get there is to build the solid foundation first.
TEXT> Completely agree with that. But as part of a larger discussion that we've had in the past is that many kids don't process the basics the same way. So, like, I was not a math kid growing up, and then I went to culinary school for a year, was put in culinary math, and then here I am doing math like, no problem. And it's when you find that interest, you get better at things. So if we put kids into these business courses, you know, relating to their woodshop or, all these programs at the tech, they're going to perform better because it's related to what they're interested in. And you don't get that in the traditional classroom. When I think of the tech, I mean, I was a traditional student, but I think of like the nontraditional students who just can't access material the same way because it's not interesting. They I'd rather see them in a business entrepreneurship class than drop out. I mean, I guess you're not going to build that foundation if you can't get the kids interested. And with business, I mean, it can relate to so many of the different, you know, so many of the different interests because it can be personalized to what business that they might want to open someday.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: But again, taking it off from like a test drive position with the new, teacher position that's required, I think. I don't see why we couldn't at least knock the

[14833-197] Ben Nester |  | 2023-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: There's not a cap. There's not a cap. Special ed.
TEXT> We have to serve with disabilities industry. But you know, we're looking at a tighter, tighter budget and a little bit of a tighter structure that we're used to. We're going to be looking at more creative ways to serve those kids so that maybe more kids dropping in services versus attending a half day program. Yeah.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: What's our relationship with Head Start? Do we have one? We didn't know you were down. So there's a handful of kids currently at headstart that require special ed services,

[14833-224] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (recognized as 'Ste | 2023-01-11
PREV> Heather Whitney: Making it happen.
TEXT> So this. Is going to go to another question. That I. Asked. I want to know every dollar of right down to. The. Penny that have been used, because that's part of the budget, to be quite honest. It's an influx of cash that has been injected into the school district. Yeah. And now we're having a debate on a huge increase. But we had all this free money. So that came in and those free monies totaled over 10 million. Correct. So we're talking 25% of our budget was free money from the federal government that we're supposed to use to improve our district, our students, for overall outcomes, to make up for the lost time for the Pope. So that creates the question to me is, is that we have this $10 million plus that's also included into this number somewhere because it's being spent. So it's just tough to digest looking at a budget with increases, when you're not even considering a free increase of $10 million in here. That's that's.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So this year's in this year's green, which also runs into next year. Third Esser Grant, was for 6.4 million. 6 million of that has been already encumbered. So there's

[14833-263] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (Richard Seaman: 'Is that what you came  | 2023-01-11
PREV> Heather Whitney: I think that we could we could justify that because we did. I think.
TEXT> Can we I have to have a question if if we were to set the tax increase threshold or our suggested threshold at what did we just say $0.94 increase, which would make it 20 the same as it was before, if our tax rate was 2453. And that would if that tax rate right there is 20, if that's just 24, 22 and it's a 63. Anyways, I'm assuming that at the tax rate of 2453, that will increase the tax rate by $0.94. Can we request that the schools, all of the different bodies who put together this budget, try to show us increase decreases that would get us closer to that number? And if they can't, a justification for why it can't be decreased. Because if there's something that just can't be taken out, I, I want to know about it and I just want to know why. But for everything that can be taken out, just cut it all discretionary funds. And I have a lot of questions about individual line item funds in here. But they say they've gone through it line by line by line. So just look again, if there is anything in here that it's absolutely not necessary for student achievement, let's consider reducing it or taking it out to get us closer to the 94 cent increase on the tax rate, which is still an increase.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But I think it would be something that people could.

[14833-309] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (Richard Seaman: 'Is that what you came  | 2023-01-11
PREV> Michael Petrin: When you see, I think I saw.
TEXT> Yes.  I just want to make a comment to the voters that echo Heather's sentiment, that the reason why we're working so hard to try to make this budget more for the voters is that the teacher's salary contract is included in this budget, and it does include a that contract was hard to win. And,  it required a lot of work on behalf of the administration, the teachers who represent the union and the board members. And it took us it was very difficult to get to a place where all three of those groups were satisfied with the contract, and  I feel that it is the very best we could do for the teachers, and that they deserve it. So  without passing this, if we don't pass this budget, that contract is not passed and it puts our school system in a really, really embarrassing position with our teachers. So just please, please try to consider that this board and the administration are doing the best we can with this budget, but that we are really, really in a difficult position because of market forces and a lot of things that are outside of our control with the price of goods and services in this, in this country. Thank you.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So just.

[14835-6] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: over the last number of years, and it breaks it out. By how many years of experience do they have with the Claremont School District? So in looking at the grid, what we find is 22% of those that leave left in the first year.
TEXT> After the first year, another 14% left after the second year. Another 17% left after the third year. And again, this is the area with our new teachers where they're getting the training, when they're getting comfortable with working with the kids and the kiddos and the students, and then we're leaving them. I mean, then we're losing them. So they're they're leaving us. The intent of the negotiation was to try and address that, that  occurrence or what's going on. So from the board's negotiation at the very start was to address the dollars down into the lower level of the grid and to make Claremont yet a little bit more competitive as it relates to teacher salaries. And if we go to the next two pages that are included here, which are which are comparables to other districts, and we'll just focus for a moment on bachelors here. So for example, right now at the start of brand new teacher, coming into Claremont School District was making 40,728. Let's hold on. The second Sol Mountain are making $4,000 more. Kearsarge right about in the same place, the Lebanon. And you can see the numbers here. Cornish is lower. We're comparable,  with Windsor and a little bit higher than Newport.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So the, the, the strategy was to both bring up that starting salary and make it competitive to the other districts, and then also to put an increase into year

[14835-11] Unidentified | School Board member on the teacher negotiating team, speaks for 'our c | 2023-01-09
PREV> Michael Koski: then that will occur. Fall September of 2024 will be the implementation of that new system. Also want to make note that there are some, give backs in insurance by the teachers. As part of the negotiation agreement, anything. We left out, however. With, I.
TEXT> Think just, we want to communicate, that the, the focus of the board was that we were driven and we had heard from educators for decades, actually, that one of the of our district is that we fail to keep these young teachers and we fail to keep talent or to be able to retain the talent that we've actually created. And so although our,  committee wanted to reward everybody heartily, we believed that it was in the best interest of our students and in the and and the district long term, to wait these salary increases at those critical periods, young teachers coming out of school from 1 to 6, they are in the highest cost points of their life. They are carrying student loans. We have educators right now that are working two jobs to keep a roof over their heads. And although we really wanted to reward the folks that are higher end up at the  higher end of the scale and recognize all the hard work they've done and the mentoring that they have done,  are overwhelming. Drive was to make sure that we were able to retain those those young, those young teachers that were up and coming.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Anything further.

[14847-326] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-17
PREV> Richard Seaman: over $1 million. That is included within the budget, as opposed to as a separate warrant article. This is at the request of the Sri to include the negotiated budget in or the negotiated agreement in the budget, as opposed to a separate warrant article.
TEXT> The greater increase that we see at Maple Avenue relates to additional special education programs that are resident in Maple Avenue. And therefore, there's a there's a slightly larger increase in Maple than there is in the other two elementary schools. Claremont Middle School is seeing a reduction, which is a combination of reduced out of district spending for middle school students, as well as some other reduced expenses for special education needs within Claremont Middle School. At the high school, we're seeing a significant increase in of district placements. Ben can go through in more detail here if needed,  but we've been provided a kiddo by kiddo estimate of what the costs are for our our  for out of district placements. For next year, the alternative program pride has been reduced primarily through a reduction in the leadership that we have in that program and some of the specials that have gone along with that program on the for assistance to some of the students, as well as in the. In the autism program, a change in the way that the autism program is being carried forward. Sugar River regional is still seeing an increase of the 95,000. The primary piece to that is the increase in the cost to the teachers that we have there, as well as a significant increase in utilities within the building here. Pre K down by almost $70,000, a reduction of three paraprofessional paraprofessional positions within pre-K district wide showing down 178,000.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: That's a large change from what we had at the last meeting, because that includes the yet to be identified reduction of 754,470, which I spoke about at the beginning

[14847-336] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Would you just mind speaking, mind speaking to the importance of the teachers contract, the way it is structured? And why we're holding that at such high value.
TEXT> Mean I can I can certainly speak to our part of it. And then for those that were part of the negotiation, the negotiating team,  we did have the negotiating team believe Heather, you were there. Frank was a part of the negotiating team. And Whitney. No. Yes. Okay.  We met many times with the SREA. What we have had a historic challenge with in Claremont is losing our young teachers. We have a teacher come in for one, two, maybe three years, get trained in Claremont and then leave for more money, leave for different positions in the area. In taking a look at that analysis, we found almost 50% of those that leave us leave within the first three years. So the target of the negotiation was to have an increase in year number three, a more significant increase, rather than just the standard 2.5% increase. So we had a more significant increase that took place in year three, which allows us hopefully to retain these teachers that we're losing, which is beneficial to us, hopefully beneficial to the teacher and certainly beneficial to our students. Now, when you have that increase in the grid, the way the grid works is it works its way all the way down to the grid.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So there's still increases going on for everyone at every step, but most meaningful at those at step number three. And that's what the big increase is that we're looking

[14847-337] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-17
PREV> Richard Seaman: that we're losing, which is beneficial to us, hopefully beneficial to the teacher and certainly beneficial to our students. Now, when you have that increase in the grid, the way the grid works is it works its way all the way down to the grid.
TEXT> So there's still increases going on for everyone at every step, but most meaningful at those at step number three. And that's what the big increase is that we're looking at this year, is trying to reduce that level of turnover, which is expensive for us to continue to recruit for it, but very expensive to our students and very expensive to all the teachers that remain here. Anything else to to add to that?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just I just want to throw in that there's a cost that we don't see directly when we have teacher turnover. It's efficiencies. It's it's I'll speak louder. So I

[14847-340] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (uncertain - speech championing the teach | 2023-01-17
PREV> Richard Seaman: what you're going to have to do is hire someone with three years of experience but only pay them step two level of salary. So it's going to it's it's almost catastrophic if we're not able to pass any teacher contract, but especially this one.
TEXT> So I, I also want to champion, the teachers contract that we have now  in also the one that we did before this. Okay. So we tried to close the gap and be in the early stages of  $40,000, which seems like a lot.  It shouldn't, but it was in the contract before this, this. Contract. We looked at all surrounding communities. We looked at  we looked at  Fall Mountain, Newport, everyone around us. This puts us right in the middle to the upper of that pack.  Absolutely historic.  Our teachers deserve it.  It would be catastrophic if this did not pass.  I think the commitment to, to our teachers, to retaining,  all of our teachers, but specifically those targeted grades with that turnover in the associated costs and the investment in that. I, I've heard it all the time. We've seen that trend start to reverse where we were starting to get teachers and administrators and from places like Hanover, from places like Fall Mountain coming our way, we want to keep that and surpass that and exceed that in the future. Claremont is a great place to work in. Our students. Deserve this. Our teachers deserve this. So I can't say enough about it. And it was a lot of time and  concessions on both sides. And I  it's it's it's very important that we got we pass this. Thank you. At this time.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I think that's the end of the overview. Correct. It is. All right. So at this time we're going to open up for citizens comments I ask that you raise

[14847-389] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center, Ward 2 residen | 2023-01-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. All right. Anybody else that hasn't spoken yet? All right, Mr. Herzog.
TEXT> Doctor Herzog, Ward two, director of Tech Center. So I mentioned I forgot to mention I did meet with Mr. Pratt today. We had a great conversation. He was  very willing to collaborate. It all depends on,  I would love to see it here at the tech center. Get more foot traffic in the tech center for other students to see our other programs. But I'm also willing to we'll we will work that out if we can make that happen. When we taught accounting, that teacher taught personal finance and it wasn't required. But he's taught four sections, and those classes were pretty full. And we really need more electives for our students and the business entrepreneurship is a great opportunity for our seniors. The plan is to make it a one year program that they could possibly do their senior year. Not, you know, not necessarily only seniors, but it just has some great legs to it. And so, yeah, I just wanted to share that with you. Thank you.
NEXT> David Putnam: David Putnam, Ward two. So the Visioning Committee has spent 7 or 8 meetings with a lot of thorough discussions, learning history, the differences with the different programs we've interviewed,

[14847-419] Mary Lovett | Public commenter, Ward 2, former student representative to the School  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Richard Seaman: Yeah.
TEXT> Just because accessibility to information was mentioned a couple of times tonight, I don't know if it's because this was the old budget.  It had been mentioned that it was updated, But it's very hard to read through love elementary Schools at the end, even though the other two elementary schools are in the beginning and Stevens isn't listed at all. So it goes from element or sugar River Valley to elementary to middle school. So,  just so we can get the things needed to be done that we need to have done, just making sure information is accessible and also maybe providing descriptions from some of these things. Some lines are just zero. And then down below there's like 40% increases, 40% decreases. It can be hard for someone without any financial literacy background or if they haven't had the opportunity to access education, that would enable them to be able to read this effectively. And number two, with talking about bringing teachers in the Claremont because it is desperately needed. I was a Stevens grad. They went through like revolving doors.  And the good ones, my I just had my five year reunion. We still talk about the good ones.  Because they do leave a impact in students and in our children's lives in Claremont. But just so you were aware,  the New Hampshire Commission on Finances, it's the New Hampshire Housing 2022 report, new Hampshire 2022 Residential Rental Cost Survey Report.
NEXT> Mary Lovett: I highly recommend you read. This will give valuable information for if you're trying to recruit teachers from outside communities, because in Sullivan County, we have a five vacancy rate

[14847-448] David Putnam | Public commenter, Ward 2, former School Board and SAU chair (self-iden | 2023-01-17
PREV> Richard Seaman: Yeah.
TEXT> Putnam  number two. This is fun. To continue with Patrick's  presentation. When I went through different educational trainings,  we learned that some of the Pacifics in,  student learning is is focusing on retention, focusing on constant awareness and learning in the classroom for the core subjects and focusing on homework so they can practice it. Good learning requires retention and practice. All of us have certain jobs and and  and when we try to go back to something that we used to do, sometimes we struggle with it because we hadn't either practiced it enough, so we hadn't retained how to do it well enough. So we weren't as successful as we thought it could be. High school students are even worse because they aren't mature people, yet they haven't adopted good habits for life. And so part of our responsibility in being teachers and educators is to help them retain knowledge and learn. Teach them how to practice it. I remember not very fondly phone calls from  local college administrators wanting to know what we were doing with our school system and the reason why they were calling me, yelling at me is because when students enrolled from Stevens High School and other local high schools, that the school had to spend up to four months retraining students in math and writing and
NEXT> David Putnam: reading so that they could then be enrolled in their college. And it's a lot of them has to do with the fact that the I believe that the school

[14847-449] David Putnam | Public commenter, Ward 2, former School Board and SAU chair (self-iden | 2023-01-17
PREV> David Putnam: our school system and the reason why they were calling me, yelling at me is because when students enrolled from Stevens High School and other local high schools, that the school had to spend up to four months retraining students in math and writing and
TEXT> reading so that they could then be enrolled in their college. And it's a lot of them has to do with the fact that the I believe that the school system didn't require students to to  include homework as part of their program of studies. When I was in school, homework was one third of our grade, and doing that homework allowed us to practice what we were taught in the classroom so we could better learn it. If we want to increase and improve our student,  successes and change our statistics on student achievement that I believe you need to look at how you teach students, how you make them work so they can learn their subjects.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[14847-453] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (recognized  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Steven Horsky: can accommodate these. Then we go to our guidance counselors because we've had lots of talk about what we need, guidance counselors and where we need them. Elementary school, one to every 500 children. Junior high school and high school one to every 300 children.
TEXT> So interestingly enough, assistants vice principals are required in schools with 500 operator. So if you look at some of the line items in the budget, I've spent way too many time looking at these. I found some areas that I thought were interesting to note. Our students aren't making the the grades for the minimum standards, but we keep putting money in. So the board's previously and this one currently sitting have kind of failed because we're not providing the correct guidance and opportunity. However, just like in big government, you give them the money, they're going to spend it. But we're still not getting the results. The community demands results time and time again. They want us to spend money on certain programs. That's fantastic. I broke down in this whole ball of wax. How many? Based off data that was previously provided based off our enrollments. So when I was able to do that, that allowed me to figure out that according and it matches up with what the paperwork actually had, they were we're hearing the teachers, but according to minimum standards, we're technically heavily overstaffed.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: We're running at better than a 50% ratio than what the minimum standards required. So in order to properly alleviate some of the budget, I've sat there and looked at,

[14847-461] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (recognized  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Steven Horsky: but if $300,000.50 in tax rate is that so I'm glad somebody. Okay, so using the wrong number. I still calculated a pretty good sized deduction. Now you go down to my least favorite line of them all which is the tech center in athletics.
TEXT> You cut those out of the budget you're saving roughly I believe that works out to another 1.6 million 600,000 of it is sports. And then roughly 1.1 is the whole tech center. With that said, I'm not looking to do that, but realistically, it's not a requirement for education of the children. And the whole point of this exercise, I was trying to narrow it down as to what the state guidelines require the taxpayers to fund. Now opposed to the presentation we have from the administration. I didn't have any pairs. I didn't any support staff. I did not cut the tech center, and I did not cut the athletics. But I found $2 million based off what I believe is wasteful spending due to class size. If we're following the minimum standards, we're getting minimal results, not even from the performance of the students. So the small class sizes is not working.  Or at least it's not well spent money, because we may be able to take some of this $2 million and put it somewhere correctly. That's actually going to improve student outcome. But what we're doing is not working. And that was the point of the exercise. I believe firmly in what I'm presenting to everybody tonight is the correct solution to at least save money and better think of ways to spend the money.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I come to these meetings, get frustrated. People hear me say, you're putting the cart before the horse. We need to start building a foundation. Yes we do. That's the

[14847-473] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (moves to re | 2023-01-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: So we have a motion by Frank. A second by Heather. Further discussion.
TEXT> Well, I'm not ready to vote yes for this, but I, I worry that we might be making a mistake by completely cutting the tech school, the tech programs that we're going to be added. But at the same time, I feel the pressure of trying to get to a budget that we're confident the voters will vote for. But I worry that we're doing a disservice to the long term success of the tech center and our students by not by not adding these new programs that are visioning committee work so hard to propose. And it's kind of good that we have these two budgets looking at looking at like we're looking at these two budgets side by side, or at least I am, because it looks like the main difference between the budget we looked at last week and the budget we looked at this week, is we're cutting those two roles from the proposed program to the tech center, the business entrepreneurship and the teacher education, as well as seriously reducing the district wide to be allocated item in the summary sheet. And so I guess, I don't know, it's really hard to say right now, but I just wonder how honestly I really want to hear from somebody in this audience how  like, what would what is a voters kind of response off the top of your head to the budget? That's 39 million 322 325 326,000 versus 38,345,000 is about $1 million difference.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: And the difference actually could be just a difference of about what's the difference between those salaries, 226,000. So if the difference was 226,000 and not 1 million, would you

[14847-498] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Bonnie, you had a yes' [834]; ' | 2023-01-17
PREV> Bonnie Miles: to benefit more students. There is a need to explore additional programs. Will labor data supports career opportunities, partnerships with business, industry and a community college, and granting students graduation credit, particularly in mathematics, science and English language arts. Through their career and technical programs.
TEXT> Now, this tech center has really grown with what it's had so far the number of students. I'm going back to 2017 to 18 to this past this year. Now Building Construction had 43 students. Now it's 89 plumbing and H had 42. Now it's 62, culinary had 19, and now it's 178 and advanced manufacturing engineering at 51. And now it's 92. And of course the accounting and personal financing was closed, but instead with 108. And just two years ago it was up to 182. So I have to say, I want the teachers to get their race and the package, but something needs to be taken from this to get us to the other schools. We are there for the children, we are there for our community, and we are there to give that. We can't just stop giving them their education and bring the graduation rate down. We've got to stay here for these kids and I'm firm on that. I think that the somewhere, Richard, you can work your magic to put this together. There's got to be money somewhere. I believe there is. And that's what I think. That's that's.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So, so.

[14875-26] Michael Petrin | School Board Chair (presides; never named on this recording — identifi | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: Gomer and some other smaller schools that are in the same situation. By doing this, it allows us to keep the hockey at the individual schools who don't have their own programs. And so that's that's the what you have in front of you there.
TEXT> So this essentially keeps our kids still our kids here in Claremont still playing hockey.  It just needs our approval.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. It's just it's just a yeah, it's a combined effort approval. Yeah. It's a combined effort that a bunch of schools are coming together for the hockey programs. Rather

[14875-32] Michael Petrin | School Board Chair (presides; never named on this recording — identifi | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: A second.
TEXT> A motion by Frank. Second. Heather. Any further discussion? I think it's it's been a great program for these kids to be able to participate. I think it'll be great for them to be able to continue this. My interesting was I think there's further approval after us. So hopefully, you know, hopefully it gains that approval. So, anything further? All right. All those in favor? All opposed? Thank you.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Great. Thank you.

[14875-38] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named on the recording: 'As Mr. Tempesta shared | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: see at $0.95. And then we when we revised the budget, it was $0.39 less on the dollar. This is just the revised tax, impact document that we're going to I'm going to go through right now. So the rationale, it's a lot to read.
TEXT> But basically the gist of this, if you haven't read it already, it's online, we've mailed it out to all, all staff, and we've tried to answer as many questions as we could from the public, and we have some of those here  to make sure we went over. We met as administrative team today to make sure that  we were just discussing things that were coming up in the buildings as soon as  recently as a few hours ago, and just what people are thinking about. Did you think of this? Did you think of that when you put something together in order to get this into the board packet, we, we we had about 6 or 7 days to get it together.  It is something of an extension of what we proposed or elements that are, are  in there of what was proposed a few years ago with a, with a restructure. We, we still feel,  even though we did this pretty  pretty  quickly and we had it there, there's elements of it that that are very substantial and ultimately I think are good for kids in. And we'll go over those. And most of all, I want to and other people in the crowd to, to also  give their perspective on it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But by moving the fifth grade up to the middle school and moving the middle school the eighth grade to the high school, we feel like we would still preserve

[14875-65] Whitney Skillen | School Board Member — onset of her Title I question | 2023-02-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: I was just curious. How does how do you teach six sections with five slots? Okay.
TEXT> What will. What will the impact be on title one for the restructuring of moving fifth grade and eighth grade to different buildings, and the impact on students who have,  I and special and special needs, especially the students who require Aids or one on one aids or one on couple few aids.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Sure. So for the special ed needs and Mr. Chairman as well. But the the IEP follows this the student. So if a kid goes up everything that they need

[14875-73] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair (named by two public commenters: 'Heather refe | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Well, we pulled it. D Skinner our free and reduced and a lunch specialist pulled that historically. But yeah, it is on the it's October 1st information that's on the on the web. Yeah.
TEXT> So for me that was important information to have when we were considering whether or not the matrix of our students had changed. Let's see what else. Also, I think it's really important for folks to know that one of the primary drivers of making sure that we have a very manageable budget to pass is that we have this collective bargaining agreement embedded in the budget. And while everything is important,  not everything can be most important when we look at budgets. And for me, being a member that was on the collective bargaining agreement committee, I feel the single most important thing that we can do, that we can do as a board right now, is to ensure that we increase our salaries for our teachers. That, to me, is just number one. We did a good job a couple of years ago, increasing our salaries for the for entry level. And we would like to continue to reward our teachers and attract the best and brightest. For me, this budget reduction allows us to do this in the future. It also allows us to build flexibility with the budget to pay our paraprofessionals what they deserve to be paid.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We have a real issue with recruiting paraprofessionals. We pay less than McDonald's pays for a paraprofessional if we do not have flexibility in our budget years down the road,

[14875-90] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (addressed on the recording as 'a | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Type of thing I think we could all. That's going to be.
TEXT> Well good evening.  Thank you for offering us a chance to kind of share some thinking.  As Mr. Tempesta shared with you, it's been a very quick 6 or 7 days to to flush out some thinking on this, but we really just wanted to touch base on,  reasons we can really get behind this transition in a model because again, we're all focused on what are the benefits for children. And so really our conversations have been  if these changes are made. What are the potential benefits for children. So Christina is welcome to start with. If  preschool came into an elementary school, she doesn't have much of a voice. I think by the time we get to Frank, he's got a good voice.  So excuse us for that.
NEXT> Christina (surname not stated): Sure, I can start. I lost my voice sobbing today, so I apologize. So some of the benefits that we kind of talked about as a preschool is right now

[14875-91] Christina (surname not stated) | Preschool / Early Childhood Center administrator — introduced as 'Chri | 2023-02-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: the potential benefits for children. So Christina is welcome to start with. If preschool came into an elementary school, she doesn't have much of a voice. I think by the time we get to Frank, he's got a good voice. So excuse us for that.
TEXT> Sure, I can start. I lost my voice sobbing today, so I apologize.  So some of the benefits that we kind of talked about as a preschool is right now  being alone at the tech center. It's kind of hard to access all of the supports that would be in a regular school basis. So,  having access to  staff would be one big thing. So today I subbed in a classroom because otherwise if I didn't sub, I would have had to shut that classroom down. I had five staff out. If we have access to other  staff in the elementary schools, we don't have to look at that being a possibility. We can access all of the staff within the building, the sub pool, all of those things and kind of have a little bit more support that way. Just having more support for  special education services, being able to work a little bit closer with the kindergarten, do some more curriculum development so that we're making sure that our students are really prepared for when they're entering the kindergarten. You know, we work really hard to get them  school ready as much as we can, but just having a little bit more of that collaboration is really important to us,  especially for our students with special needs.
NEXT> Christina (surname not stated): We have a really, really high, I almost want to call it a crisis right now in early childhood crisis in Claremont. I've gotten 26 bed referrals in the last

[14875-92] Christina (surname not stated) | Preschool / Early Childhood Center administrator — introduced as 'Chri | 2023-02-01
PREV> Christina (surname not stated): prepared for when they're entering the kindergarten. You know, we work really hard to get them school ready as much as we can, but just having a little bit more of that collaboration is really important to us, especially for our students with special needs.
TEXT> We have a really, really high, I almost want to call it a crisis right now in early childhood crisis in Claremont. I've gotten 26 bed referrals in the last three months. It's not even been four months. These students are are really significantly behind. There are lots of reasons behind this, some of it being, you know, coming out of Covid. Some of it's looking at our socioeconomics in Claremont and some of it's looking at screens. And what's that doing to our students language. And now I have all these three year olds without any language entering the preschool environment. So,  I think being in an elementary school, we can get a little bit more creative about how we can service these students and what preschool can look like. I think Ben has my notes. If I missed anything.
NEXT> Ben Nester: You hit all the lead points. Yeah. One thing. You can. Align the curriculum a little better, you know, and so that we are, you know, perhaps improving our, our

[14875-97] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (the preschool administrator defe | 2023-02-01
PREV> Christina (surname not stated): That would be great.
TEXT> We're going to, you know, increasing instructional minutes for the kids is another advantage.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much.

[14875-99] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (addressed on the recording as 'a | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much.
TEXT> I got just a couple of other things  to that. We also want to  build our school families as quickly as we can. And bringing preschool into the fold early brings that entire family into our school into our school mix early. So services such as guidance and our social worker again, additional supports not just to students but to families as well. We also want to think about the goal of every administrator here tonight. And those even not here tonight, is to think about how do we enrich a child's education even further than than what we've previously been able to do?  Really, we'd be able to enrich preschoolers in several ways, as Ben just mentioned, introducing them to what is what is PE, music library technology? They're well versed in technology, but let's channel that in a different way.  As I mentioned, additional resources and interventions to families, but also to students. We never want to hold a child back because we don't have something in place for them when they're ready to go. And that collaboration between preschool and kindergarten also affords,  better alignment and curriculum.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Having students ready, ready to go, making families aware of kind of what those expectations are. And I want to echo something that Heather said because I was ready to

[14875-100] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (addressed on the recording as 'a | 2023-02-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: additional resources and interventions to families, but also to students. We never want to hold a child back because we don't have something in place for them when they're ready to go. And that collaboration between preschool and kindergarten also affords, better alignment and curriculum.
TEXT> Having students ready, ready to go, making families  aware of kind of what those expectations are. And I want to echo something that Heather said because I was ready to clap. Heather, in all honesty, the two greatest resources, in my opinion, that we can give our children, our teachers and investing in preschool. And so the thought of cutting teachers certainly didn't sit well with any administrator. And so hence the creative thinking about how do we do business differently? Well, still, increasing what we offer students in preschool is, is one of those resources. And with this switch, I think we can get much closer to universal preschool because we will be gaining some room in our buildings. There is not currently in any elementary school additional room for anything,  even storage. I have teachers right here in this audience that can tell you that firsthand. So certainly looking at class size is a concern  because our classrooms are full, not necessarily with students larger furniture due to Covid.  The additional supplies that we've brought in with the wonderful programs we are adding. So there's a lot of factors to that. I'll. The other thing, I'll be honest, I joke all the time that I'd love to have an infant program nearby as well, because when there's an infant around, nobody misbehaves because we wouldn't want to upset the baby, right?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Younger students bring out the best in older students, and I know at all three of the elementary schools, we do a lot to partner younger and older. So again,

[14875-113] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (addressed on the recording as 'a | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> I have two concerns. One is a reduction of staff  concerns. Me I understand recommended targets for numbers of kids in a classroom.  Numbers are one thing. And what's behind the numbers is another level of need.  The amount of support needed. You know, what's in the best interest of each of those children, rather than them just being a number. So that is a concern for me.  My other concern is ensuring that parent concerns are heard and planned around. Right. And so that we're able to reassure families that  their children that there are benefits for their children. To this,  I think parent voice is incredibly important, and we have to listen to that, respond to that and learn from it. Because the beauty of multiple stakeholders talking is that we learn from other perspectives, and we need to ensure that we have that as part of this process.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you.

[14875-118] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the chair — 'Mr. Pratt i | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: more personalized and makes it the environment feels smaller. We like to recognize when they do things great, just like the school does, but it also allows us to continue to grow certain areas in the in the arts, in the music, in the theater.
TEXT> That in giving those kids those opportunities that they had at the middle school, but also continue to have at the high school level because, you know, we want to continue to grow those programs, but it also allows us to have eighth grade students who may excel in the eighth grade curriculum and have proven that it's not enough for them, so they don't get bored. They could essentially move into a a high school level class where if over time we get more and more in this, it allows kids to, you know, complete all the credits within three years and graduate early. Or, you know, if we start going down that road, what does that look like? Their senior year? We can open up more opportunities to see actual job placement, get their community service. I was done. So actually gives an opportunity for these students who may get board in the eighth grade to challenge them or get their credits in earlier and offer more opportunities down the road.  It also gives an opportunity for,  bridging that gap we see sometimes coming from a middle school to a high school, what's here or anywhere else that now the teachers in the building so we can align our curriculums more, we can,  we can look at where they end up and where they begin now, because I know that's a lot.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Every year we have those transition meetings with middle school and high school, and a lot of times they're still, you know, we we think they should be going in

[14875-120] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the chair — 'Mr. Pratt i | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: I've been here and I've been in a lot of high schools, I think the biggest effect we're going to see for the eighth grade is coming in is the role models and the examples that the upperclassmen will set for the eighth grade students.
TEXT> And we have a tremendous student body. And,  I'm proud of where they are and where they continue to grow. And I think just having the eighth graders see that by the time they get to the ninth grade year, you'll see a different level of maturity. You know, some of the some of the cons is that we we would see in any situation is the transition. We've made great strides this year and building school climate. And I think, you know, that might go back a little bit, but we'll get back to where it is.  So I see more benefits, pros and cons of moving the middle school eighth graders up to the high school. And it's not an unusual model where a lot of schools where you have decreased enrollment,  that a lot of places go to, like I said, in a 8 to 12 or seven through 12. So you can provide more opportunities  for these students.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you, Mr. Pratt. Just I want to ask Mr. Romeo too, since he currently has the eighth graders, if he had anything to add to that. I think it

[14875-122] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (the chair: 'I want to ask Mr. Rome | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you, Mr. Pratt. Just I want to ask Mr. Romeo too, since he currently has the eighth graders, if he had anything to add to that. I think it was.
TEXT> The only thing I was thinking about as Mr. Pratt was talking is the opportunities that I know,  that will be afforded to the eighth graders, whether it be through the tech center,  and other classes and courses that we can offer.  And I do think and looking at all the eighth grade classes as they struggle to make that jump into high school, to be able to offer some of those things, I think we'll set them on a path quicker,  which will keep students in school. And that's really what we want to do. We want them to get an education. We want to make sure that everybody has the opportunity. And I think being able to offer that a bit earlier and being able to work with fifth graders earlier is really going to help maintain  that for our students. The other thing I want to say, which my staff is going to tell you, this is where I talk too much,  but I drive 45 minutes, 50 minutes a day easily to come here. And I pass a lot of schools and a lot of districts, some which I  applied to before I came here, but I, I drive here and I come here because I believe in the people I work with. I believe in the community that I serve, and I believe in the kids,  that we're able  to be a part of and, and help structure.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: And we're in a tough situation and we have to make some tough decisions. But I hope taking a look at this helps to keep the integrity of what's special

[14875-128] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the chair — 'Mr. Pratt i | 2023-02-01
PREV> Whitney Skillen: for our high achieving students at Stevens, specifically AP courses and, and and more rigorous electives that would make them competitive candidates to top ranked schools. I'm just wondering if you see any leverage points to increase those opportunities in the next three years. Say.
TEXT> Yeah, I think there's huge opportunities there. But before, because a lot of times,  in middle schools in general, is that for these students who want to excel as much as teachers and administrators want these students to excel, the opportunities aren't there. It's like I said, you have eighth grade students who can prove to us, you know, that they're they're excelling in their eighth grade classes. And for English class or, or  or science class is that we can meet with them and their families in the councils and say, okay, they're ready now to take eighth grade credits that will go towards graduation. And I know we have a lot of those students, but we're able to really look at the individual students on a level and offer those opportunities for them to excel, possibly complete their four years in three years and have them in that final year experience a, a college class,  or for the students who are going right into the workforce, give them the opportunities to actually work in the field before making a major decision at such a young age of what they want to major in. But I think there's there's there's more opportunities with that than there are in the current model. We're able to raise the bar for kids,  as groups and as individuals. We'll look we're able to personalize their learning more at that stage.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. Thank you. Just one more to pay you back off of what you were saying. So what I'm hoping you'll you'll say to me is that if what I'm

[14875-137] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the chair — 'Mr. Pratt i | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mike Koski: Yeah.
TEXT> And I just like to finish by saying that I've worked in a lot of high schools over the years of my 30 years, and I've been so impressed. And it's pretty much what Frank says. I drive an hour from Brattleboro every day, and there are other places that I could have gone. I came here for a reason, and then when I got the assistant principal job, it wanted to apply to be the principal job, because I was so impressed with the level of dedication that the teachers at the high school show on a regular basis, watching out for each other, watching out for the students. Like, for instance, we don't have a lot of we don't have a huge sub pool. They're always stepping up and covering for their colleagues that that's that's very rare, where usually that if you don't have a sub, then the students have to go to the auditorium or something and the learning doesn't take place. We have such a dedicated and I think it's cross a district, but I can only speak firsthand from the from the high school, such a dedicated, dedicated group of teachers that come to work every day for the same reasons we all do, because we we like where we are and we like what we do.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And the students on top of that. Like I said, I've I've been in the urban cities and I've been in rural areas. I've been so impressed with the student

[14875-146] David Putnam | Public commenter, Ward 2 — his self-identification | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: I open it up to the public? Seeing nothing at this time, and we're going to open it up for public comments? We're we're trying to follow the rule of three minutes per person. So, Mr. Putnam, I saw you first and then Miss Ryan.
TEXT> Thank you. David Putnam. Ward two.  This. Would be. A question to the superintendent or the assistant superintendent. It's obvious that this current situation is driven by your,  budget cut. And so if you are producing a plan of to improve student achievement, how would that compare with what you're presenting tonight? And what kind of data and information can you provide to us to prove that this plan will improve student achievement with expectations that you envision for our for our school district and our students now saying that one of the best things we can do is invest in early childhood development. So moving the preschools to the elementary schools, for all the reasons we heard, is a very positive things to do. In fact, in the best world, we would have a preschool program that starts when the children are two years old and their early childhood development, then developing an IQ for learning would be huge and the results would really show up on their in fourth grade. So. So how does this now plan induced by your budget cuts?  Support the idea of student achievement to match improvements with our test scores and meet the expectations that so many in the community are relying on. First step.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: You want me to go.

[14875-152] David Putnam | Public commenter, Ward 2 — recognised by the chair as 'Mr. Putnam' and | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: each level. So, that's what I'm excited about, about the, the ways in which you could grow upon it in terms of proven studies that would prove exactly where this is right now. I don't have those for you. Right? Right now, like I like.
TEXT> So what's your gut feeling about how it will improve test scores and student achievement?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So I think we're already we've shown gains already in the past three years, even during Covid of increasing that, slightly. But when we look at the historical scores

[14875-157] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'a question for Mike' an | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Someone's got it.
TEXT> So the factors that impact student learning the most are quality teachers. And that's why if you have a class of 30 or a class 15, if the teacher in front of the students is very skilled, then students make gains. When we lose a quarter to a third of our staff every year, we can't develop that large impact quality teacher staff and the teachers who've been with us or quality teachers. And so it's a little bit of a side piece, but the teacher contract, we think is really what's going to help us retain staff. And then through coaching models, we can develop all those teacher skills, and then we see the improved student results.
NEXT> David Putnam: Okay. Thank you.

[14875-166] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair (named by two public commenters: 'Heather refe | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mimi Rhines: So that's I think I think that's a major question that the public is going to want to know.
TEXT> Is we would not. My my impression is, is that compressing this class sizes, moving the children the fifth to six,  the eighth to ninth allows for pre-K, right.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: So if everything goes, all the money goes in next week and the budget passes.

[14875-181] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 — onset of / thanks after her own remarks | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Candy.
TEXT> I have. Candace Crawford, Ward two. I have  3 or 4 points.  Number one,  the,  Heather referenced cost per students, and I did look up the data. The average cost per student for New Hampshire is 19,400. For Claremont in the same report was 18,400. So $1,000 less average cost in areas  districts close to us. Fall mountain is 19,900, Newport is 19,000, unity is 2000, Lebanon is 23 for and Cornish is 256 again, Claremont is 184, so below the state average and below all the other surrounding districts. Number two, I think that it's really important to talk about,  giving a  college, you know, giving our students the ability to get college courses and have articulation agreements with various area colleges. I think it's also important for us to remember that 35% of our students don't do not go on to any further education, 35% and 25% of our beginning freshmen do not graduate. That's those two significant factors. And we've got to address that.  The third is it feels like as I've been looking at this curriculum development is is so important. And getting the curriculum in line,  I think that  contributes to student achievement and success. And it feels like this plan,  it's like rearranging the chairs on the deck of the boat without addressing the curriculum.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It's just figuring out where the kids are going to go, what school. Without a significant impact of addressing curriculum. And then the fourth point is, I don't think it's

[14875-182] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified; recognised by the chair as  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: looking at this curriculum development is is so important. And getting the curriculum in line, I think that contributes to student achievement and success. And it feels like this plan, it's like rearranging the chairs on the deck of the boat without addressing the curriculum.
TEXT> It's just figuring out where the kids are going to go, what school. Without a significant impact of addressing curriculum. And then the fourth point is, I don't think it's fair to the voters of Claremont to make this an either or. Either you support the teachers contract and cut $1 million, or you leave the million dollars in and you don't support teachers. I don't think that's a fair comparison. I think that we can support the teacher's contract, which I do. However, we don't have to cut $1 million, and I think we need to give the citizens, the voters of Claremont, a chance to support the schools wholeheartedly. My one question at the end is a 15% reduction in staff equates to how many,  positions would that be cutting? Thank you. Of course.
NEXT> Mike Koski: 6 to 9. I guess.

[14875-191] Arlene Hawkins | Public commenter, Ward 3, 592 Redwater Brook Road (self-identified) —  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: new restructuring. Are we maintaining our commitment to our staff and the commitment to our schools by rushing into this? The physical classrooms that I heard are crowded, and if we're increasing class sizes, will students have opportunities to move around within their own classroom?
TEXT> And have we looked at certifications for teachers, specifically middle school, moving into the high school, and how how is that impacted? All of this requires time to listen, to plan, and to implement, being driven by best practices rather than a financial reduction. Will this reduction of $1 million help to advance opportunities for economic development within our own community? You know, I was very glad to hear Mr. Tempesta say that you are expanding the tech center. That's a real jewel in our community. That also can enhance our economic development by guiding our students into trades, owning their own small businesses, and pursuing further advancement. Educational support has to reflect the needs specific to our community, not minimum standards. I did have questions, many questions for tonight, and I did send them ahead of tonight's meeting. During the presentation, I did not hear them address and maybe someone can clarify them for me tonight. Thank you. I did sin, I did.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yeah, we received them. But in all fairness, it was probably three three hours before the meeting, so it doesn't leave a lot of time to. I mean, people may

[14875-199] Lisa Holtz | Public commenter — Claremont resident and elementary school teacher; o | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right. I've seen numerous has I think I saw your hand first, so. Yes, miss.
TEXT> Hi. I'm Lisa Holtz,  I'm a Claremont  resident, and I'm also an elementary school teacher. And, I think you're going to hear I know you're going to hear a different side. The a different side of this. So the nuts and bolts of student learning are teacher student relationships, strong student social emotional skills, and quality instruction in order to build solid teacher student relationships, we need time with each student programs such as Responsive Classroom and the time to implement them well, and teachers personal wellness. You know we need we need to have some time with the kids not running around and just doing the basic stuff, absorbing more students with into classes with less teachers is not indicative to quality teacher student relationships. As you know, each child is unique, with strengths and challenges in social emotional skills and academic skills.  This I'm wondering with,  Heather Whitney's comment about the free and reduced lunch and that we're down a down in the in that percentage. I don't think that addresses our social emotional needs of our students. That does not address it at all.  There are kids that are that have lunches from home that have truly, they are way behind in where they need to be. And if you don't have if you don't have social emotional skills, you are not going to access academics. You will not.
NEXT> Lisa Holtz: Additionally, many of our students families struggle with basic social, emotional, financial, and academic skills are not, and they're not equipped to provide the support needed at home. That means

[14875-200] Lisa Holtz | Public commenter — Claremont resident and elementary school teacher (s | 2023-02-01
PREV> Lisa Holtz: There are kids that are that have lunches from home that have truly, they are way behind in where they need to be. And if you don't have if you don't have social emotional skills, you are not going to access academics. You will not.
TEXT> Additionally, many of our students families struggle with basic social, emotional, financial, and academic skills are not, and they're not equipped to provide the support needed at home. That means our jobs as educators is even more important. Restructuring fifth grade students to CMS and eighth grade students to Stevens seems like a good decision regarding economics and maybe some academic more,  opportunities. However, it also fails to consider the social emotional needs of our younger students. In this current time with TikTok and with all the stuff that they see all the time when they go on their games and they're talking to their friends, and that's who they spend all of their time with, all of their time. They're faced with making decisions that are well beyond their developmental, emotional, social, and physical capability. Children and youth are privy to social media, just plain media, burdening peer pressure to experiment with and accept behaviors. There are far too heavy a burden for their age.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I'm sorry to interrupt, but that was your three minutes.

[14875-206] Jennifer Austin | Public commenter — onset of her self-identification | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: One of information, name and ward, please.
TEXT> Oh. I'm sorry, Jennifer Austin and I just moved. I'm sorry, but now my heights. I've moved out of Ward. Thank you. I've moved out of the state because of school reasons and financial reasons. Had to move back, but am seriously considering because my seventh grade daughter is sexually being assaulted at school.  I've notified and I would like answers to figure out what's going to happen to these children because my daughter herself, her friends multiple not only female but male students are being affected by students and we have notified the proper people and it gets lost. And I understand that. I have had multiple conversations with multiple people in this room, and I understand that now  something is being worked on about this, but a parent has to stand up and I always say, oh, I wish I could go to that meeting. I should have gone to the meeting. Someone has to say something. There is a huge issue with behavioral  of a 12 year old and a 12 year old at this point that I am dealing with on a legal level where there are 12, you can't legally do very much.
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: The teacher's hands are tied between what is right and what is the law. Board of education, everyone a right to a education. I'm sorry, my blood is boiling right

[14875-207] Jennifer Austin | Public commenter — parent of three Claremont students (self-identified | 2023-02-01
PREV> Jennifer Austin: meeting. Someone has to say something. There is a huge issue with behavioral of a 12 year old and a 12 year old at this point that I am dealing with on a legal level where there are 12, you can't legally do very much.
TEXT> The teacher's hands are tied between what is right and what is the law.  Board of education, everyone a right to a education.  I'm sorry, my blood is boiling right now. So,  not only verbally is she being assaulted, but physically being assaulted, and it's going to determine her future.  I have two more children to go through this, and I working very hard. Excuse me, but I can't continue this with this school and not feeling like these girls can say anything because they are saying we. I'm not saying something because he gets worse, he gets more mean. They get worse in. I worry for these kids who are going to have to go into this high school. You're worried about 12 year olds and 12 year olds. What is going to happen when you mix these 1213 year olds with 17 and 18 year olds, and they don't know they're in my school. I can be attracted to them. Or these boys with these girls, some dress inappropriately and they they know better, but they don't do. So we're going to be with title nines, with legal action of assault and two minutes in a hallway with a child being groped by another person, or in a classroom where they're being sexually touched and have to physically move, but afraid I'm going to hit him because now I'm going to get in trouble.
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: That is words from my child. If I hit him, I will get in trouble. So I did nothing about it. If I say something, he gets more mean. So

[14875-208] Jennifer Austin | Public commenter — parent of three Claremont students (self-identified | 2023-02-01
PREV> Jennifer Austin: of assault and two minutes in a hallway with a child being groped by another person, or in a classroom where they're being sexually touched and have to physically move, but afraid I'm going to hit him because now I'm going to get in trouble.
TEXT> That is words from my child. If I hit him, I will get in trouble. So I did nothing about it. If I say something, he gets more mean. So it went from her being sexually  assaulted to verbally picked on pictures, body shaming. And it's not just my daughter, but I'm telling you by talking to other parents, they they don't want to deal with it. I don't work full time. I  just started working part time.  I really I know I'm out of time, but I do have sides of both educationally and student related concerns with this.  But I really want I had to say it tonight because this is where it needs to be said. So you guys can know  that there is a a problem with these teachers can't handle these children. I mean, I'm I'm at turning points network today talking about  with an advocate how to handle this legally and educationally for my daughter. And I'm getting a call from the school and they're she's being sprayed in the face by another student with Fabrice. So it's never ending. And it's not even the same kid. It's it's never ending. Well, where's the teacher?
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: In the hallway, monitoring the kids during intermediate. So do you understand how frustrated I am and that there is a huge concern between. Yes, it may benefit them educationally.

[14875-209] Jennifer Austin | Public commenter — parent of three Claremont students (self-identified | 2023-02-01
PREV> Jennifer Austin: and educationally for my daughter. And I'm getting a call from the school and they're she's being sprayed in the face by another student with Fabrice. So it's never ending. And it's not even the same kid. It's it's never ending. Well, where's the teacher?
TEXT> In the hallway, monitoring the kids during intermediate. So do you understand how frustrated I am and that there is a huge concern between. Yes, it may benefit them educationally. As she said, social emotionally they are not on the same level. And that I did report these to an administrator. And then after speaking with the principal, he never heard about it. Never. Not one report, one request. I requested the second offense. I said, this is a two time offense. I would like this research as assault at this point and I never heard back.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. So thank you.

[14875-214] Raquel (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 — PTO president at Maple Avenue School, paren | 2023-02-01
PREV> Raquel (surname not stated): My class was the first class through that wing. And then we went to high school. We went from seven period classroom a day to block scheduling, which was not, you know, our of the norm. That was what a lot of schools were pushing.
TEXT> And I can tell you as a student that grew up through this with a range of classmates,  those of us supported at home, those of us growing up in homes where we had parents who were attentive, grandparents that were attentive. We had community members and teachers that thoroughly stood up for us. We thrived. Didn't matter that we changed grades or schedules every year for 4 or 5 years in a row. Didn't matter. The kids who come home to not attentive parents or grandparents, whoever they are, housing with,  the students who are home by themselves. The students who,  for example, my son brought a classmate a pair of gloves because he hasn't shown up with a pair of gloves at all this winter. Those are the kids that fought through all of their schooling thought they had. They have no one at home to to support them, and when the school didn't have enough staff to support them, they fell through the cracks. I had 48 classmates that didn't graduate as seniors in our class, 48 that had to go through CAD or another program or just dropped out entirely. That's going to be a result of some of these transitions.
NEXT> Raquel (surname not stated): So are we willing to sacrifice? What are we willing to sacrifice? I am not against pre-K. I taught in this building down the hall when we had preschool. It's

[14875-219] Mary Lovett | Public commenter, Ward 2 — her self-identification, split across two d | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Mary. The words to. So I don't. Know if you. Recently saw, but our US Secretary of Education had a talk called Raise the Bar on the 24th of January. And in this discussion, I found points that I wanted to research further to include grant funding that we haven't thought about what we as a nation want to do to further our children's education and our possibilities of success. And so I came up with some of these things to look into, such as the Perkins Grant. We talked about the sugar River Valley Tech Center last time, and I found through this grant that the New Hampshire Department of Education offers running start dual enrollment classes through the CTA courses, and they fund it. So if we were talking about our vision community or our vision committee of what they discussed, trying to look at these grant opportunities to fund it, because as I mentioned in a past meeting, I, I try to prioritize alternative thinking.
NEXT> Mary Lovett: How can we collaborate with community colleges such as River Valley, who has a great childhood education program and possibly create a partnership where seminars are used at our school

[14875-224] Jenna Gage | Public commenter — second grade teacher at Maple Avenue School; onset  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> Hi. I'm Jenna Gage. I'm a second. Grade teacher at  Maple. I also live in Claremont off. Washington Street. I'm sorry, I don't know what word. I just decided to type this up as we were talking.  So going off of Lisa's points, as well as a lot of other people's  points, I believe the relationships of the students and the teachers will be affected negatively with these changes.  I've only been here for less than a year, but as I'm hearing this discussion, I was thinking of the demographic of the town and of my specific class. I'm hearing a lot of people tonight discuss the benefits of all these transitions and changes in these added electives for the students. However, I'm not sure we're all thinking of our specific classes and  our students, our kids, because personally, my students are mostly looking at my data two grade levels below where they should be. So if we're talking about all these high achievement and success rates that we want to see, we don't need these more electives, the reduction of teachers or the bigger class sizes.
NEXT> Jenna Gage: What they need is actually more teachers and more individualized instruction. In the academic areas of math and reading, the smaller group sizes will allow the students needs to be

[14875-225] Jenna Gage | Public commenter — second grade teacher at Maple Avenue School, Clarem | 2023-02-01
PREV> Jenna Gage: mostly looking at my data two grade levels below where they should be. So if we're talking about all these high achievement and success rates that we want to see, we don't need these more electives, the reduction of teachers or the bigger class sizes.
TEXT> What they need is actually more teachers and more individualized instruction. In the academic areas of math and reading,  the smaller group sizes will allow the students needs to be better targeted.  The students can't thrive in these added electives and choices that we're all saying we would love to see our children and students participate in. If they don't have those basic reading and math skills that a lot of these students in K through five are still very behind and and lacking of  so we need more teachers to help fill these gaps and help these students be on the grade level that they should actually be at. Again, thinking of the demographic of my students in my class specifically, I thought about all the changes in transitions and I know about I teach at Maple,  the fifth going to the sixth grade or the eighth going to the ninth grade, the high school speaking from my students. And I've only known them again for less than a year. I know that the more transitions that they have, the more changes they have. Their learning is interrupted. It becomes more challenging for them to learn from other teachers and their behaviors are increased. Do we have enough staff to support all these increases of behavior? I don't I really don't believe we do. I don't see their social and emotional needs being met or their academic  academic needs fully being met with these changes.
NEXT> Jenna Gage: So I personally see benefit in keeping K through five the way it's structured now.

[14875-235] Michelle (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 — parent of a preschooler, a third grader and | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michelle (surname not stated): 5 years takes to move it forward, and we're saying that we did it in 6 to 7 days. I don't understand why we can't put together a real committee with a purpose, with community members, with teachers, with parents, and really look at evidence.
TEXT> I have asked for three years for the evidence for the school district to provide me with why we are doing this. Where is the data showing that this is going to prove education? No one has given it to me in three years.  I'm not. There could be warrant in restructuring, but we need to look at our district, our needs. We need to look at. Do we have social emotional needs? Yes. Do we have like, maybe there is a restructure, but is this the answer? Was the other one? The answer I don't know. We have no consultants. We have no one who is really taking into account what our district really needs. We're shifting students. That's what we're doing. And if we're looking at looking at expanding opportunities, what are these expanded opportunities? What I hear is in sixth grade, in the third quarter, you can get into advanced math. That's that's that's an expanded opportunity. Meanwhile, there's no I don't know of any language at the high school level. We don't have foreign language. What what what enriching opportunities are we providing to these students? Thank you. And sorry. One last thing.  When the funds for funds are done, what happens next?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Right. That's the question. Thanks. Thank you.

[14875-237] Unidentified public commenter — Ward 3 school board candidate | His garbled self-identification ('Next on Ward three'), rendered ident | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Right. That's the question. Thanks. Thank you.
TEXT> Next on Ward three. I'm also  opposed to the majority of this,  decision that we're making tonight.  Simply because I don't think increasing class sizes ever will achieve a better student outcome. That's just my opinion. I know, Heather, you said there was a couple of camps kind of in that,  thought process.  And I do agree that this is a semi restructure. And my basis, especially my time on the board, is when we did talk about the restructure, we couldn't figure out in a year. So we're supposed to figure this out in a week.  And it just seems like it's really, really rushed. And I'm not saying this the whole thing is bad, but I think maybe if we took some more time and I know with the delivery session already set, that's kind of tough to do. And, you know, I think there's no one who wants to have the taxes raised, but it can't come at the expense of improving our education here. That's a big reason why I ran for school board last year and also running again this year, because we need people who have just been graduated through there like, no. Tonight, a lot of admin have been talking about the this big realization about the,  college credit in high school.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter — Ward 3 school board candidate: That's not new. I did it. Marian did it when she was in school with me. It's not new, so I'm not sure why that's being sold as a, you

[14875-241] Molly DeLuca | Public commenter, Ward 2 — former restructuring committee member (self | 2023-02-01
PREV> Molly DeLuca: that my kids go to Bluff Elementary. So I know we have a little bit more of a disadvantage with our population, but it is a serious concern. And even he has acted up in his class. And I'm like, that is not your behavior.
TEXT> And it's, you know, he's bored. He's seeing that these kids can disrupt and he's trying to get attention. So he's being disruptive.  So I just I don't see how you can increase class sizes.  I can't speak for any other elementary school, but at Bluff School, I. I just think that's a bad idea.  But, yeah, just to close, you know, it's the,  social and emotional,  concern that I have about moving fifth grade to middle school in eighth grade to high school. I just really think that that is one of the most important things to think about. Anyway. That's it. Thanks.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Is everybody had a chance to want to speak first? The first round. All right, so this. Conversation, I don't think people recognize me. Okay. So we can

[14875-243] Michelle (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 — parent of a preschooler, a third grader and | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: everybody had a chance to want to speak first? The first round. All right, so this. Conversation, I don't think people recognize me. Okay. So we can go to anybody wants to speak a second time. We typically do two minutes. Okay. Yeah, sure. Michelle.
TEXT> She'll be in for two  one. One other quick thing I just want to say is before we look at increasing class sizes, I want to know from Ben Nester if we are, every para that is required, state mandated in a child's e, I p is fully staffed within our school district. No thanks. We're going to increase last sizes, but not provide the supports to the students.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Mr. Pope.

[14875-245] Scott Pope | Public commenter, Ward 2 — his self-identification and opening, split  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Mr. Pope.
TEXT> Scott Pope, Ward two not going to speak to much of the budget. You probably. Already heard enough. About that. Except to. Say, I hear. The school board. Talk about. The AP. Students, the top 10 to 15. Percent, the. Students who need a lot of learning help, you know, the bottom 10 to 15%, your behavioral issues and all that. I just implore you have to think about the students that I taught a lot of that middle 70%, the student that just kind of gets lost because they just take the basic credits and just want to get out of school, or they get B's and sees they just get looked over because they're getting the beads and C's. Just think about that. I wonder about class sizes losing that student, because in a large class you always I taught. I mean, I taught large classes, small classes and engineering. You always remember those top students and bottom students, but somehow there's about 70% of the kids that just seem to get lost in the middle. And those are the ones I've always worried about.
NEXT> Scott Pope: Those are the ones that don't seem to quite make it to college sometimes or into trades, whatever. So a procedural question regarding the budgets, the default budget for 2324.

[14875-279] Cassandra Edwards | Public commenter, Ward 3 — parent, citizen and teacher at Disnard Elem | 2023-02-01
PREV> Cassandra Edwards: That doesn't stop at the building that comes up here, too. So when we get pulled into a meeting with our principal that says the school board has boated, has approved your contract and voted to cut $1 million, and we have no idea why.
TEXT> But all we keep hearing is we're going to restructure. It gets very confusing and it gets very obviously, you've heard from a lot of educators tonight that are all about, well, what's going to happen to our kids, because that's our first priority as educators in this district. What is what's happening with the kids? We want them to be okay. But when it comes to turnover and teachers who are staying in the district, it comes down to do I feel supported? Do I feel like the rug is going to be pulled out from under me the next time I turn around? I've worked in districts when I didn't feel supported by my administrators, and I wasn't sure what was happening at the school board and I. That's what you need to keep teachers here. We need to have a consistent staff at the Dow. I don't I don't know who HR is right now. We've had turnover there. It's confusing. The curriculum we're using has been around because we keep having turnover of personnel involved in, you know, evaluating our curriculum programs. Those are the things that keep seizures in district. That's what helps our students. And that's what I came to say.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you.

[14875-284] Unidentified public commenter — second turn | Onset of the second-turn commenter's remarks; never named | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: So thanks. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> I just have. Two things to. Say and I'm. Done for the night.  I heard someone say they had been in the elementary classrooms where kids and people in the room have difficulty moving around. I see the projected class size for next year's grade three at 21 and two of the schools. That's an increase when you're already dealing with a specific size room that should be taken into consideration. Also, I heard a statement tonight about the community can come and restore the budget. And as I sit here, I think how unfortunate that our school board would have the community come forward to vote against you rather than work hand in hand with you in support of our students and our families.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you. All right. Any further comments from the public?

[14875-345] Whitney Skillen | School Board Member (the tech center director answers her visioning-co | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Closing activities.
TEXT> I have one more comment to make. I would like to formally request, and I don't want to make a motion for this, but just from me, on behalf of the parents of the middle school students, I need you as soon as possible to get with the principal of the middle school, investigate these accusations and events of sexual assault, and literally shut it down. I am not kidding. As a student who has experienced very similar things to what these parents are talking about, I just want to share this story. To be candid, I was in the same position as your daughter where I was groped and sexually assaulted by a student, and the teachers didn't do anything in the seventh grade, to the point where I and I'm going to admit this, to get to let you know how how I understand what your daughter is going through. It got to the point where the student touched me in the library when it was just me, him, and one other person in the library. I had to push him over the chair and then punch him in the chest to get him to leave me alone. And I don't want to see any girl in this school district have to do that.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: So I need for the parents of these boys to get them the help they need. Get yourself to help you need for the administration and the principals to shut

[14875-346] Whitney Skillen | School Board Member (the tech center director answers her visioning-co | 2023-02-01
PREV> Whitney Skillen: and one other person in the library. I had to push him over the chair and then punch him in the chest to get him to leave me alone. And I don't want to see any girl in this school district have to do that.
TEXT> So I need for the parents of these boys to get them the help they need. Get yourself to help you need for the administration and the principals to shut it down. Because this is not the first time I've heard this story. All last year when I was campaigning and walking through those carpool lines, parent after parent of daughter after daughter was telling me about what was happening in the middle school to their children. And as an auntie, I do not play. We need to shut it down. Shut it down. Little boys who are not reprimanded when they are acting like sexual deviants, turn into sexual predators. And I will not have it. Not on my watch. Shut it down. Thank you. Yeah, I. Know today.
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: I could say something. After that.

[14875-352] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named on the recording: 'As Mr. Tempesta shared | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: I'm going to get back to order here. I think I think we've we've asked the administration to take a look at this and make sure it's addressed.
TEXT> I we. Have taken a look at it. We've been in communication.  That that has happened. I don't want to give the impression that we haven't done that yet. We have. So there is, it is being dealt with. So I can't talk about specifics of this. I urge all of us not to talk about specifics of this and an open forum like this for a variety of legal and ethical reasons for the students.
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: So my reasoning for bringing this up is so that these parents and these girls know to say something because they're not. I'm not saying that this child or these

[14892-21] Steven Horsky | School Board Member, speaking from the floor as a Ward 2 voter (self-I | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. One wishing to speak in favor of this amendment. Anyone wishing to speak against this amendment.
TEXT> Even asking Ward two, probably the elephant in the room, because I'm the one that had the discussion about how I saw a way to save millions of dollars by looking at minimum standards. Very simply, everybody thinks that we're coming in here with an ax or a plus,  trying to cut the quality of education for the Claremont students. That's not accurate. We're looking at a way to condense and make it more efficient and productive for these students. There's been lots of misinformation at first, but everybody's saying, oh, we're cutting sports for the tech. No, but that is an area that could be saved and is not required by minimum standards. So we're not following the minimum standards. We're looking at ways to go about improving the quality of education, maintaining what we have in preparing for our future, such as a tech center renovation. That's not going to not cost us money. The other piece of the puzzle here that people are not thinking about is how we have talked about restructuring. One of the biggest things, the biggest hurdle of how to restructure was community schools. We did that. The only thing that happened here is the of the fifth grade, going into the middle school and the eighth grade going to the high school. There is not huge changes trying to respect the community input in make the most valuable use of impact planning for the future of Claremont students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Anyone else wish to speak to this? Is the the. Attendance, the school. Board meeting with this report. Steve made the motion to cut the million dollars, and at that

[14892-22] Unidentified | Moderator of the Claremont School District, presiding under RSA 40:13  | 2023-02-08
PREV> Steven Horsky: the of the fifth grade, going into the middle school and the eighth grade going to the high school. There is not huge changes trying to respect the community input in make the most valuable use of impact planning for the future of Claremont students.
TEXT> Anyone else wish to speak to this? Is the the. Attendance, the school. Board meeting with this report. Steve made the motion to cut the million dollars, and at that moment, I felt that it was a reckless move because even though he had presented, traps, knowing what minimum standards are in the after, it's very rare. A school district in the Hampshire follows the minimum standards because for the most part, it does not deliver the type of education a lot of us expect from our children. Well, that being said, with the main purpose of this budget, I feel, is the teacher's contract. We always are behind other school districts pay schedules for their staff, and it really affects how long some of us teachers stay here. Many of them move on after the train here, have experience here and move on to local area towns to first still teach their craft but also earn more money. Some teachers earn up to 20 to $30,000 more than what we paid here. This budget is very important to pass this contract. So because of that, I'm not in favor of of this amendment because I think that it is expands the difference between a proposed budget and a department to a place that a lot of people might not support.
NEXT> Unidentified: The proposal that adding to the restructuring this budget can pass or not, and you restructuring could still happen. One feature about restructuring that was not mentioned is it also

[14892-23] Unidentified | Voter from the floor who attended the board meeting where the $1,000,0 | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: very important to pass this contract. So because of that, I'm not in favor of of this amendment because I think that it is expands the difference between a proposed budget and a department to a place that a lot of people might not support.
TEXT> The proposal that adding to the restructuring this budget can pass or not, and you restructuring could still happen. One feature about restructuring that was not mentioned is it also starts a preschool program that all of the elementary schools and that is very near and dear to me. Preschool education. Excitable development is one of the huge, most important things you can do for developing the children's IQ for learning. Time this department. Thank you. Anyone else who hasn't spoken like to speak to this amendment favor or against? Anyone who's  spoken like the speaking and. Recognizing that. For. The first time. Someone like the speaker passes speaking. Shelby in Ward two. I'm gonna. Put it. Sorry. He does sign. This one here. You put your name, names. I didn't I didn't have. A chance to read all the rules, and my time is starting. I'm not sure if I'm for this or against this. No, I guess anyone who would like to speak to the men, speaking. To the amendment of putting the money back in, and I am referring to the restructuring proposal, and I speak to that. I'm sorry. I can't hear you. Michelle. Michelle. Thanks, Mike. My question is, I'm. Speaking. For this, and I've heard, Mr.  Speaker,  about the restructuring. Heather Whitney speaking there she was against the amendment for the restructure.
NEXT> Unidentified: My comment is towards the restructure. Am I allowed to see that? You can you can speak everyone that whatever you want to say, as long as it's about the

[14892-38] John Wadsworth | Voter, Ward 2 (self-identified at the podium; the ASR renders the sign | 2023-02-08
PREV> John Wadsworth: put them in with 18, 19 year olds who thought that was a good idea. We already cannot handle the sexual harassment and the bullying and things like that in the schools currently. And you guys think this is going to be a good idea.
TEXT> You don't have enough parents, you don't have enough anything, and now you want to make money out of budget and then add more kids. You just it doesn't make sense. You guys have got to look back and look at your own kids. When your kids excel in that kind of a program. I know why you're struggling middle school because of the discipline, because of teachers. When the teachers are doing a great job. The problem is they don't have any support, and you have all these different IEPs that are supposed to be one on one. There's very few one on ones in this in any of these schools districts. And you think of many dollars out of it, stupid. Just you guys got to think of the bigger picture. The kids are already struggling. They go to college from Stevens and they're struggling to college. We need to do something better. We got to do something better for our our students in this, in this town. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Very much. Or two. Take it up. Let me talk about the millions of dollars that I saw when I looked at the slide, who was on the thing. Shifting

[14892-39] Unidentified | Voter, Ward 2, itemizing where the $1,000,000 could be found without r | 2023-02-08
PREV> John Wadsworth: to think of the bigger picture. The kids are already struggling. They go to college from Stevens and they're struggling to college. We need to do something better. We got to do something better for our our students in this, in this town. Thank you.
TEXT> Very much. Or two. Take it up. Let me talk about the millions of dollars that I saw when I looked at the slide, who was on the thing. Shifting two teachers to the local budget to grant budgets is 20%. Title two has nothing to do with restructuring behavior assistance to academic support specialists. Esser grants has nothing to do with spectrum at 60% of the million dollars at $600,000. If you take the $400 that is in the budget that we're holding on to for next year, there's $1 million most. And we don't have to do any restructuring to get the million dollars. So I don't see where we have to worry about restructuring. We can give the teachers of salary with the lower amount of money and still meet the $1 million cut without having to go through restructuring. Thank you. Is there anyone else would like to speak? A large number of. Staff who I. Am very close with have done. The same thing. Loved our school. Loved our kids. Loved our administration. Had to get out. For financial purposes.  My children all go to school. Here in the district, have had some amazing.
NEXT> Unidentified: Teachers and had some amazing academic growth because of that, and also have had a lot of struggles because they do not have teachers that are consistent in the district.

[14892-41] Unidentified | Voter from the floor relaying what teachers told her by email (name no | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: things that they provided insight on. They are spending 30 to 50% of their time, they feel managing behaviors. These teachers get a pair for one hour in their classroom if they're lucky, because that pair is not being pulled to sub for another classroom.
TEXT> Our sub  is two people, two people. So  I'm  putting the money back in because that's where our teachers are going to get their support. That's where our staff is going to get the people they need so they can actually eat a lunch, do planning and make an emergency phone call to schedule a doctor's appointment if they need to during the day, during business hours. That's all I've got to say. Is there anyone else that would like to speak to this amendment or to sign in? Yeah. Well, We can't put our older, already established students on the back burner. If we move these children around as planned, we are setting them up for failure. It would be a whole new social, emotional world that they have not mentally or physically been prepared for. My concern with reducing shifting staff and increasing class sizes by even one student in an actual daily reality that is currently happening in and out of these classrooms, we already have teachers stretched to thin, having to do jobs that are not paid for, even actually trained to do.
NEXT> Unidentified: We're looking at the budget versus jobs posted on the website. Are these honestly, honestly considered in the actual budget? We can't keep robbing Peter to pay Paul, keep the

[14892-42] Unidentified | Voter from the floor speaking against moving students and shifting sta | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: staff and increasing class sizes by even one student in an actual daily reality that is currently happening in and out of these classrooms, we already have teachers stretched to thin, having to do jobs that are not paid for, even actually trained to do.
TEXT> We're looking at the budget versus jobs posted on the website. Are these honestly, honestly considered in the actual budget? We can't keep robbing Peter to pay Paul,  keep the money in the budget and figure it out. Maybe consider using Mr. Lovett's ideas for finding a solution to the problem rather than a quick, easy fix. It was set at the last meeting when the decision to cut $1 million. The answer was to where that money was coming from was a no brainer. I knew it would be immediately from at least staffing. Why? And then I deal setting ID your restructure plan, there would be one teacher and one helper per class. We don't even have even close to that now. The administration has been so wrapped up in this budget. Stuff is affecting the attention of other important behavioral issues at hand in the district, and our children and in this community are suffering from it. I really hope that you can take my  and all of the other community members concerns seriously and stop worrying about money.  Can I just have two seconds? Worry about the real crisis at hand? We are in. So I agree, as many, many as other said tonight that the budget and the restructuring are two completely separate factors, and shifting staff and students is absolutely not being accepted. Good night. Good night. Anyone who hasn't spoken would like to speak. Seeing none, I. Allow. The opponent to the speakers.
NEXT> Unidentified: Again. I have to write it down 2321. I want to have a word. One. Want to speak in favor of the amendment? First of all, I want to point

[14892-47] Unidentified | Moderator of the Claremont School District, presiding under RSA 40:13  | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: And then I'll info the. If you can make and talk with everything you want and till I come back to order. Mr.. Please have two people. One of the end of the road. This is the amendment. No we're not. Holding on the amendment.
TEXT> We're going on the amendment. A  a yes vote would be to add the million dollars back  over to the budget. The we. Don't need to budget. That. A single. No, no. There may be much better is basically, in my opinion, the end of the year. Actually. Sean. Sean Walker said that I was going to say so. Yeah. All right. I'm going off of your movement, man. This is a pregnant possession. I'm ready on my back against the wall and see anybody in front of me. Well, you have to go. We're waiting for the. Hey, we're not breaking the rules. That's right. I don't even have a checking account like we should put them back in. And I was like, the escalation of the rules. When I was, like, a night. That's an expensive mic. I wouldn't, I just couldn't see it. Yeah. Reconsideration of word articles one and two a second. We have a motion and a second reconsideration of board. Act of one and two. What this means is that. A motion. To be. Strict reconsideration of award as the intent of Otis not be allowed to go back to further discuss and amend these animals, we'll have a voice vote on this, although they fight by saying I'm  opposed. Day the eyes having that concludes tonight's meeting. On behalf of myself and the school district, I want to thank you for your. Order. Yes.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Candace Crawford, talk to. I'm wondering, with a new but a number of. Well, article two, will the default budget be altered?

[14892-51] Unidentified | Moderator of the Claremont School District, presiding under RSA 40:13  | 2023-02-08
PREV> Richard Seaman: What those budget. And I. Would. Really ask the board to consider revising the default budget so that the difference between the two helps preserve the vote. To to maintain this contract. Yes yes yes yes yes okay. To get folks to support. The budget.
TEXT> Okay. I have someone speaking during the meeting and I was going to say that. So if you could just hold on. Why. Do you need. To have a. Motion to close the meeting? No. I'm trying to do that right now. On behalf of myself and the school district, I want to thank you for your time tonight and remind you that the ballot session is Tuesday,  March 14th, 2023 at the second night. And now the meeting is over. I have two people, the ladies, I just stepped forward and Andy Bernier asked me just for a moment,  in front of you as first. So I'd like to ask him to make. Please sign it again.
NEXT> Andy Bernier: Thanks for indulging in for a minute. As many of you are aware, there is a long standing disparity in funding and resources between school districts in New Hampshire. Because

[14892-53] Andy Bernier | New Hampshire School Funding Fairness Project (the moderator names him | 2023-02-08
PREV> Andy Bernier: state and some of the brightest minds in education that thoroughly identifies the problem. The results recommend solutions, and so on. That report currently sits in Concord, with many legislators either unaware of its existence or unwilling to discuss its findings in a meaningful way.
TEXT> This is not the future that I want for our children in our state that most of us want. Policies are needed to address this issue, and that will lead to more equitable funding for all schools and students in New Hampshire, regardless of ZIP code. So I encourage everyone here tonight to take some time. Review the information provided by the New Hampshire School Funding Fairness Project. It's a group of people that are dedicated to this problem, that are trying to bring awareness to citizens all around the state, to legislators all around the state. And by learning about this issue, we can become more informed. More engaged citizens will work toward holding legislators accountable to our courts decisions of constitutional responsibility to ensure that all students in New Hampshire have access to a quality funded education, regardless of where they live. And these types of problems that we experience every year in this situation can begin to go away.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[14892-57] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative, Croydon (self-identified; House ed | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: Wow.
TEXT> I'm bringing this up to you folks tonight, because it is very clear that the audience in this room is pro education, pro teachers, pro what's good for kids. But you might not represent all the people who will come to the polls in Claremont to vote for the budget on March 14th. And so I just want to vigorously encourage all of you and anyone you can talk to, really strongly encourage your friends, your neighbors, your colleagues, your grandparents. 18 year olds can register to vote. They might be seniors in high school. They might care a whole lot. Just really trying to get out the vote is probably what's going to make the difference in whether you get the funding that you want to have. So  I've. Just encouraging you to really send postcards, make phone calls, maybe do signs,  but work for it.  And I hope that what you're after, I do have my business cards here. If anybody  wants one to be able to connect with me about education issues or other stuff at the state House, I'll be over there. And  thank you and have a good evening.
NEXT> 

[14909-7] Michael Petrin | School Board Chair (roll-call vote seg 468-471: 'And myself' / ASR 'Mi | 2023-02-15
PREV> Unidentified: I'll make a motion to approve the minutes as presented. Second.
TEXT> Second by Heather. Further discussion. In favor? I oppose any abstentions. Thank you. Moving on. Here, I want you to. Citizens. Comments. Any citizens I would like to speak at this time. Seeing none. I'm going to run to our student representative report. Good evening. Hannah.
NEXT> Hannah Petrin: Let's have winter enrichment this last month with students. Got to do all different kinds of activities. This now just had a performance of the snow Queen on the ninth.

[14909-44] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: doesn't go, we have to get on it that way. So I'm going to go up and ask folks that come up and present their piece of that. You're all on this. So, so. So we're going to. So. Think we're going to the gym.
TEXT> All right. All right. So we'll do we'll do safe space. So basically there are several parts of this  in  just go through.  When we talked about the reconfiguration obviously, you know, we talked about the situation that led to it with, with the million dollar reduction, the for the four biggest points  about this and are very important is that  primarily and let the principals, you know,   chime in when they want to chime in. But we, we have a really,  significant overcrowding, overcrowding and lack of space in the elementary schools right now. Title services are done in front of other kids in the library that Maple  Bluff. We are short rooms. We have some other crowding out for specialized programs. And it's a tough situation. The right sizing okay, of class sizes K to 12 to adjust to students needs and to the developmental needs and appropriateness of the instruction they need at each level. Now, what you're going to see,  at least for the second semester, average all the way through. And it holds true throughout all of the data that we looked at a ten year look back at the historic impact of class sizes. And to be completely honest, I was shocked to find out that the ten year average is lower class size at the high school in second semester than it is and second semester, because we do a we did a year end analysis.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So that's the second semester in a block schedule. And the average in all the elementaries for ten years is 16 students. Okay. So you'll see that data, the universal

[14909-45] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: class sizes. And to be completely honest, I was shocked to find out that the ten year average is lower class size at the high school in second semester than it is and second semester, because we do a we did a year end analysis.
TEXT> So that's the second semester in a block schedule. And the average in all the elementaries for ten years is 16 students. Okay. So you'll see that data,  the universal pre-K in each neighborhood elementary school. We simply could not do this currently with our configuration. Currently, the pre-K is up here as a remnant of  a  former tech center program. They are in isolation. Every member of the text of the excuse me of the elementary program, and the director will speak about that as well. They are ecstatic to be embedded in schools. They lose some of their team spirit and the amazing program that they got together over the years, but it's definitely to benefit the students. All right. The instructional coaching model at all schools. Granted, we can do this anyway when we're moving towards it, but it would be significantly focused  at the early elementary, excuse me, at the elementary interventions, because now we would have K through four concentration. We wouldn't have we'd have four grades. We wouldn't have five. We'd have more communication with title and the like. All right. So I just want to go through all of it. These were the general,  benefits that we discussed before alleviating the room crisis.  Embedded at each elementary school room to expand programing and interventions. And we can talk about those as well,  the coaching and interventions and more control  and expansion for class size. So that that is really important.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The very last bullet, we simply don't have any room in any buildings to do anything substantial for interventions right now at the elementary. And we wouldn't only way to

[14909-49] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (handed the floor at seg 77: 'I'll let | 2023-02-15
PREV> Mike Koski: to an administrator and teacher that I've had any conversations with, everybody wants to see student improvement. And this kind of really kicked us into throwing more options on the table as to what could we do to move us out of that bottom 25%.
TEXT> And so we know looking at those blue highlights that we can move, our students are not destined to, to to live there. They can get out of that range and we can move into that middle percentage of the state average.  We just haven't been able to do it consistently. A big part of needing to do that is reducing teacher,  turnover so that we can keep our teachers and have them continue to make those improvements. So we think that and a lot of these great,  reconfigurations will get us there so that we can start to move more and more of our students out of this bottom quarter. And who's pretty pristine coming up. I think you're next. Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you.

[14909-51] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> So just kind of looking at  a possible universal pre-K model, it's kind of a buzzword that's been thrown around a little bit.  But we have the opportunity if we move some,  grades around to make space for universal preschool model. And  that would just really be a historical moment for  this district to get a three year olds and four year olds to have,  preschool opportunities,  free public preschool  for all is,  I think the dream. So  just looking at  my enrollment currently. So this is just kind of looking at where, my current students are slated for schools, but if we can  make that a little bit more equitable across the board and make sure that all of the schools have access to  preschool, if we can get them in the door sooner,  hopefully that will help with our literacy and math scores that we're looking at improving, getting them in the door sooner. We definitely see kids coming in right now,  much lower than we'd like them to see.  Many of our students need pretty intensive interventions when they come to us at preschool, so if we can get everyone in the door sooner, get more interventions across the board.  Hoping to make some improvements, I don't know.
NEXT> Unidentified: Do you want to highlight on that?

[14909-54] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Mike Koski: Would you mind saying what those are? I forget how you phrased it, but the the extreme interventions you need, what does the student look like who comes to preschool? Needs a lot of intervention.
TEXT> Often we see kids,  who come to us completely non-verbal.  They've never been around peers before. They've never sat at a table and done any structured activities before. So  having a rich language environment, having,  access to school participation activities, having access to self-regulation activities, improving their social emotional development, these are all things that if they don't have access to these things before they step into those kindergarten classrooms, that's when those behaviors are happening. And we hear that teachers cannot handle those class loads that they have because the  the needs are so broad and the behaviors are  so intense, because these kids have never had any of those expectations or, really any of those skills taught to them before. So we can't wait till kindergarten to, to be teaching those skills to these kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[14909-57] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Are there any visual versus staying?
TEXT> Absolutely.  I think that the other  elementary principals can absolutely talk to the fact that moving from a half day very,  isolated preschool setting into a big elementary, full day program is a really difficult transition for these kids. We see kids that have only been in school for 2 or 3 hours before really, really struggle with that transition. They've never experienced being in these these big schools before. That's very overwhelming. We can see a lot more social emotional meltdowns,  and just a longer transitioning period that takes  a lot of extra support in those classrooms, those for six weeks of school when you're teaching those  transitions and expectations. So having the kids already there, having them already familiar with the schools routines, building just all of that, I think that's going to help with a lot of those transitions.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So just I want one clarification question looking at this chart, is it when I'm looking at the sending school pre-K enrollment and I'm seeing 20 and then I see

[14909-63] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (speaks for Disnard - ASR 'Disney | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: first to to have this and the how many fifth grade classrooms are there? Disney right now. I can speak to that. Helpful. Yeah. So, to go back to what you were referencing, Frank, what are the what are the space restrictions in the schools?
TEXT> Mine's a little bit different in that,  every space at Disney is completely utilized. Right. So if I ever had to add on an additional classroom, I simply wouldn't be able to do that. So I would have three currently right now,  three fifth grade classrooms exiting. And I would be welcoming two preschool classrooms.  What we do every year is we have currently we have three sections of every grade level, with the exception of one that only has two. And based on our enrollment and student needs that we decide which grade level would have the two sessions. Right now,  my third, my fifth grade has three. So I would be freeing up three classrooms and it would still give me the opportunity to, let's say, I get  I think one year I had an influx over the summer of 11 first graders. That's almost another classroom. And so again, that still gives me a room to have flexibility in case I need another.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: One and bluff.

[14909-66] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Christine Baker: two fifth grade classrooms, given our enrollment. So. Looking for space for them to add that classroom, we would need to do some shifting and looking for space. Did I answer all the questions? That's okay. Just one fifth would look for two next year.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you. Our estimates is about a room left over at each building. And we still have to come into the consolidation and the shifting of the special ed programs after this, based on where the kids present by the end of the year. So that's the other one to work to work through. So the next. I'm sorry.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: It looks like the. Preschool. Enrollment is weighted more towards Maple. Is that because Maple has the space to have more preschool children there? And if not, if if space

[14909-73] Stephanie (surname not stated) | Curriculum Director, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (called up as ' | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Be back. I guess the common theme is we have done these things before, and we see a lot of what has happened before that got sidetracked.
TEXT> So Christina is not on only our pre-K expert, but she's also been a part of a coaching model here in Claremont, because you can have things that work in other districts, but you not unique to this population. And so she actually has some things to share on down the road.  We do have this handy dandy slide with a unicorn on it that's really pretty. I don't know if anyone remembers My Little Pony, but that's a My Little Pony unicorn right there, I think.  But actually we went on a school visit on Friday to see Whitten Wisdom, one of the programs that we're piloting in our curriculum work. And one of the things that they were talking about, because, you know, we're back and forth about, is they're the perfect program. And they talked about there's no unicorns, only strong horses. Well, when we were talking about this, I was debriefing with  the team. And that's a wonderful analogy for us to be able to use to describe so many things going on in Claremont right now. We put so much on our teachers and expect them to be unicorns when they're strong horses. There's no mythical creature coming out of the woodworks to be able to save us right now, but there are some really strong things that we can do to boost student achievement. And the Haddie piece. I don't know if you were going to speak about how to. You go ahead.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And so in trying to build the strength of those horses, there's research about educational research done by John Hattie, and he tries to measure the effect size and which

[14909-74] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (handed the floor at seg 77: 'I'll let | 2023-02-15
PREV> Stephanie (surname not stated): of the woodworks to be able to save us right now, but there are some really strong things that we can do to boost student achievement. And the Haddie piece. I don't know if you were going to speak about how to. You go ahead.
TEXT> And so in trying to build the strength of those horses, there's research about educational research done by John Hattie, and he tries to measure the effect size  and which is basically the distance between the group that didn't get the impact or the influence and the group that did. And the larger that distance, the greater the effect it's had on the students. And so the things on the left in green collective teacher skill, the more we can pour into our teachers and improve their ability, and then the higher level thinking skills, cognitive task analysis, making sure we're we're bringing students up to those higher levels of thinking tasks. The larger the impacts, they're on the right hand side. There are things that schools and teachers do that have less of an impact. And one of those has been to reduce class sizes. And it appears that  for a long time there's there's been an effort to reduce class size for many reasons. And it has a positive impact. It's just not as great at impacting with kind of limited resources. We'd like to focus on those things that are going to give us the greatest bang for our buck, the greatest amount of impact.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And so this research has been done, I guess it's it's been at least 10 or 15 years. It's it's pretty solid. We can we can find find it very

[14909-79] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (handed the floor at seg 77: 'I'll let | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The influence. Yeah, sure.
TEXT> So collective teacher skill. If you were to measure the skills of your teacher across the staff, how many of your experience, how many are inexperienced, what skills do they have collectively? You pull that all together. And as we measure that, you know,  the number of things every teacher can do in your school impacts the student. Cognitive task analysis is, are we always teaching kind of simple wrote skills, or are we pushing our students thinking higher and higher? And are we looking at the questions we ask to make sure we're pushing them higher and higher? Direct instruction is just dumping information at you. It's effective. It's boring as can be, but it works.  And then the feedback piece is those one on one. You did this. Well, you didn't do that. Well teacher to student. Here's where we need to improve and continue to have those kind of conferences along those lines. Audio visual methods. That's pretty self-explanatory. Just using all the computer stuff co where team teaching are two adults working together, maybe two adults that teach social studies and humanities together, or one might have  special education skills and the other teachers or content teacher and they work together to teach the class. And then programed instruction is kind of a scripted classroom where every class is getting the same information every day, all the time. Does that make sense? Yep.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah.

[14909-84] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Christina Sanford: what goals I wanted to work on. I worked on that goal for two weeks. She came back and observed it was a reflective session where we decided whether or not I needed to keep working on those skills or move on to something else.
TEXT> And you can see by May 2018. So by the end of my first year of coaching, I made a 27 and  27% improvement in my teaching skills.  So that's one year of coaching right there. And then looking at the next year, I also got another year of coaching. And  October 2018, I demonstrated 91% of the skills that they wanted to see. And then by the end of my second year of coaching, I was demonstrating 97% of the skills that they wanted to see. So  I put myself on blast here just so you guys could see what coaching looks like, why it's important, and really what it could do for our students in this district.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And this is nice because it's in the aggregate, but we also have okay, this is this is this is actually Christina's report.

[14909-100] Steven Horsky | School Board Member (chair: 'Stephen had a question' at seg 184; Heath | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: will really, really get legs. And it's also not taking away title teachers. It's, it's augmenting what we have for title for the pullout for kids who need targeted interventions. In addition to that, we'd have coaching to build the capacity. So one of to.
TEXT> Be clear, I think the one concern I have in the in the presentation is that it's not required by teachers. So that's kind of where the, the, the look I was going for,  was to clarify who and why they're selected. Because in my opinion, if we're developed, we have an ability to develop our teachers. And the fact that if we were selecting somebody for said program, and I understand that it some people don't like to be forced to do things. However, at that point, this is to better my children's experience in our school district. So I  just.
NEXT> Stephanie (surname not stated): So the coaching model, all the research behind the coaching model, as a coach, I'm not in a I build a relationship with teachers. Until you build that relationship, you're

[14909-113] Bonnie Miles | School Board Member (UNCERTAIN: attributed by elimination - all six si | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: more effective concentrated, and we are going to do it either way with the hard work to get that grant to start, start seeing it. We already have people lined up for that, so that's all I had. I didn't mean to belabor it, but.
TEXT> So do we know how, free and reduced? That's really two different things. There's free and then there's reduced two different groups of people. Do we have any idea if we've got a 47% free reduced? How many of those kids are free? I know that we have all that stuff.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And it's also kind of confidential.

[14909-122] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Bonnie Miles: And basically.
TEXT> To look at. And I'll say it like it is the most in need. School for a very long time because of the catchment has been bluff where we need more interventions  in other the longest where you see maple, the reason you see so many teachers there for a long time, there's two reasons. It has always been the seat of all the special ed classes in extra teachers needed  for at least ten years, maybe longer. We only went back ten and they are in.  Also. We have to put other teachers in because they're not, recognized as as title teachers as well. So and again, we had to pull this very quick. So my question was two parts. So well actually three parts. So I'm wondering why if we have free reduced lunch. So I'm going to just arbitrarily say 20% of those kids are free, but just for the heck of it.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: So why are we not using a head start? Those are those are the those are kids that are, at the poverty level. They need the same interventions as you're

[14909-132] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: students didn't do as well down the road or we didn't see any gains. So what's what's in what's your vision of how we can ensure that if we are investing that it is going to be what would be considered very high quality preschool.
TEXT> So I could talk a little bit about what high quality looks like in my perspective, but also talking about that data,  that you're referring to, I think there I think there's also, some factors that, that go into that right now.  We are  a half time program offered a few days a week, and the families that can access that a lot of times are  working families. A lot of time our working families have to have full day and they're looking for daycare opportunities or they're looking for full day preschool. A lot of times,  the kids that were capturing are our  are  at risk kids. There are kids who don't have exposure. They're not they're not ready to at home. They're they're not getting the same experiences as some of those kids in those full day programs. With,  you know, it's not equitable. So when you're looking at that data, I think there are some skewed things to think about.  But also thinking about high quality. We want to make sure that we have highly trained teachers. We want to make sure that,  right now we have integrated services  within our programs. So what that looks like is occupational therapy centers, speech therapy centers for all kids working on,  the whole child development.
NEXT> Christina Sanford: So we're looking at social emotional development. We're looking at finding gross motor. We're looking at really the whole child. We're looking at play based, play based opportunities because we

[14909-210] Gary Merchant | Public commenter, Ward 2; NH State Representative (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: You have your room for everybody, please.
TEXT> Oh, yeah. I came back from Concord. So doing the doing work down there as well. For the record, my name is Gary Merchant.  Ward two, Claremont, New Hampshire. So I think the reason we all are here tonight, for the most part, is trying to ensure as much as possible that we passed the teachers contract. I heard that time and time again. And if we don't find a way to close the gap between the proposed budget and the default budget, it puts it a greater risk. So I think by adding money back into it, and I believe the statute is written, you can add back in the default budget positions that were cut. So, Miss Gillan, to your point, the 60 $600,000 by putting it back into the budget because that was cut out of the budget, is a way to increase the default budget and close the gap between the two. Secondly, we just heard tonight wonderful things about teacher coaching and why we're trying to increase the contract with the teachers is to retain them. So if we're going to put more money into the teachers, which is a wonderful thing to do, and I think we should to help them become better teachers for our students, wouldn't it make sense, retain them and keep the investment here in Claremont?
NEXT> Gary Merchant: And as far as the third thing, it was very confusing at the deliberative session, I don't disagree. Facts were presented. What wasn't there was enough information to understand the

[14909-211] Gary Merchant | Public commenter, Ward 2; NH State Representative (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Gary Merchant: So if we're going to put more money into the teachers, which is a wonderful thing to do, and I think we should to help them become better teachers for our students, wouldn't it make sense, retain them and keep the investment here in Claremont?
TEXT> And as far as the third thing, it was very confusing at the deliberative session, I don't disagree. Facts were presented. What wasn't there was enough information to understand the facts. And that's where it got confusing. And I think a lot of people felt that they put the million dollars back into the budget. It would avoid the restructuring because the reason for the restructuring in the at the time was to close the million dollar gap. If we put the million dollars back into it, we wouldn't have to restructure it and go through structuring. So those are the three points we want to make. One, we really have to focus on finding a way to pass the budget to get the teachers the contract to deserve. We need to find a way to retain them so we have money put into them for coaching. It's the benefit of them as well as most importantly, to our students. And third, the liberal section was kind of confusing. That's my comments for tonight.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yes you did. Keep going. If you could. Okay.

[14909-215] Michelle Beaton | Public commenter, Ward 2 - her self-identification, clipped into a boa | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: We have. Sorry.
TEXT> Michelle, be in Ward two. My. Question is I was. I've been at the board meeting with Liberal Sessions, and I think the way this whole process has been handled has been very confusing to the public. I was at the board meeting January 17th, $38 million was about to be passed. Quick five minute recess by the board. Million dollars is cut. No explanation. So as a public, we're left being very confused about what's happening and why there's a sudden cut from the money. The next thing we're being told is that a restructuring plan is being represented or presented to us to handle the $1 million cut in response to. But then we here at the deliberative session that a restructuring plan has been in the works for a while. And so we don't really have the answer. Is this in response to the million dollar cut, or is this something that's been in the works for a long time? We don't know why $1 million was cut suddenly in five minutes, when board was about to pass a $38 million budget. We don't even know  universal pre-K, and my understanding is that we can offer a space to every child in this school district A to attend the preschool. I love the preschool. I am all for universal pre-K. Can you tell me that in this plan, every child in Claremont that wants a space can have it?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's what we model.

[14909-289] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (speaks for Disnard - ASR 'Disney | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: around to the community. And I wanted to thank Zach Hurst from Kent, M for funding and helping provide supplies for that program. For us, it was a huge help. And I don't know if you wanted to say anything about how the program went.
TEXT> Oh, absolutely.  One we do it for the kids, right? It's an enormous amount of planning, and we always say, oh,  and then we've watched the first time the kids go out, we had kids doing everything from bowling to Jenkins to learning a foreign language to,  you're going to laugh when I say this yarn crafts. I have kids that now know how to knit and crochet and they're so excited. I had a teacher say to me, could we please extend it to six weeks? They said the kids just had an enormous time. It's absolutely one of the most spectacular things. So thank you. There's, there's it's such a great opportunity for kids. Those that go out into the community, they also get to connect with kids in other schools. So for example,  we sent 100, 120 children to the community center from all three elementary schools, completely took over the community center. So wonderful site. People were very gracious, but they were not only with their friends from school, they were their friends from across the district. So thank you. It's an amazing opportunity. Thanks. And here was a huge piece of that. As well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: My oversight. Michelle beaten.

[14909-291] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (speaks for Disnard - ASR 'Disney | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: My oversight. Michelle beaten.
TEXT> Every cause needs a champion here. Well hold on, but I am. For this reason. So every every cause needs a champion. And Michelle is a huge driver of the winter enrichment program.  Just an enormous amount of work was done by this lady right here to make sure that our kids had the opportunity, that we had all the details worked out, as you can imagine. Sending. Oh, gosh, we sent off almost four. Hundred. Almost 500 children into the community  to Pamela, our bus department. Like it takes so many wonderful people  to pull this off. And it's just a phenomenal experience for kiddos. We couldn't do it without. Without better factors. And,  and the donations and people doing the legwork, it's just a tremendous activity. So I just got to hear about quick to say.
NEXT> Michelle Beaton: That, Melissa Lewis here is not giving her self justice. And I will say that I did do a fair amount of work, but the principles and I completely and

[14909-292] Michelle Beaton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID at seg 395 rendered 'Michelle, be in | 2023-02-15
PREV> Melissa Lewis: people to pull this off. And it's just a phenomenal experience for kiddos. We couldn't do it without. Without better factors. And, and the donations and people doing the legwork, it's just a tremendous activity. So I just got to hear about quick to say.
TEXT> That, Melissa Lewis here is not giving her self justice. And I  will say that I  did do a fair amount of work, but the principles and I completely and so thankful that you supported the winter program, but the principals themselves did so  much legwork behind this. They were the drivers of the winter program for our kids. And I can tell you that I just saw smiles when I was at the community center with over 100 kids and how happy they were.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And. We have. To say a huge shout out to staff, right? We can't just send these kiddos out 100 kids into a pool, into a gym, to a bowling

[14911-15] Stephanie Hurst | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 (named 'Stephanie' on the recording; surnam | 2023-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: And, they had asked us to put a hold until we had really come up with a more firm plan of what that would be. Is this part of that? Because I noticed that there is a walkthrough component to this. I'm wondering if that's.
TEXT> I can add what I know and then you add what you know.  So for this program, it's a very driven by walkthroughs and what we gather from seeing what's happening in the classroom district type walkthroughs, not for evaluation purposes, but as far as moving instruction along. So even now, we've conducted a few walkthroughs at Maple Elementary School from our letters training for administrative. So we go through and we look at where are they with their phonological awareness instruction and where could they,  focus their lesson planning to be able to make that more strong, robust instruction for their students? We also have the option to do that for phonics and,  multi syllable morphology in the upper grades. So  it is a part of it, but not for what he can tell you about which is the evaluation process.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. And that's that's the distinction this this would be for improved instruction, but there would be no evaluation piece tied with teacher knighted. And so it would be separate

[14911-53] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity School Board Chair | 2023-02-16
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: examples of the strategy used to meet the goals, and the progress towards meeting the goals. Provide the self-evaluation the board would review those the goals, any examples that are provided, supporting documents which we talked about at the retreat and I'll talk about again.
TEXT> The board may collect input from constituents, which is another area that we talked about.  Board fills out and evaluation tool, providing constructive feedback and to identify opportunities for improvement. And then the board meets with the superintendent to discuss the valuation and set goals for the coming year. So that's the the gist of how we do one. Now let's get into a little bit more specific. I think I just flew by, So what will we do with the information? And this is something,  I think that's also very important to us to consider. I mean, one of the things we want to do is look at trends over the years. And so we need to collect data to make sure that as a as a joint district, we are moving forward with our goals for student achievement. So this by doing a  formal evaluation or going through the formal evaluation process, it it provides us the information, determine whether our strategies and personnel that we have are sufficient to achieve those goals. And that's really important because as we've noted, even in the last year, when we didn't have sufficient personnel in place to  perform the functions that were needed, it set us back a bit.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: It helps us identify areas in need of improvement for both the board and the superintendent, areas where we need more resources in particular, but effective communication, because I'm here

[14911-56] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity School Board Chair | 2023-02-16
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: the ranking that each board member gave and is required if you ranked very low or very high, or if you are intimately involved in that specific goal area and have more information than the rest of the board, and you should also be commenting.
TEXT> So it's a fairly flexible tool. It has the area at the top that allows us to define the goal area. It has an area to link reference documents that go to the specific goals for each district, and we can also link  at the  at the formal evaluation process at the end of the year. We can also link  provide links to  any documentation that the superintendent has provided or any other documentation that we have can all be linked to the page for the specific goal area. So everything's all in one place when it comes time to do the evaluation. Okay. So this is where we start getting into some of the things that we discussed at the retreat, specifically  the evaluation calendar. We talked about two different calendars, one that was aligned with the election cycle and would be more aligned with board member experience.  For in going and out come out incoming and outgoing board members, the other being aligned with the school year. And the thing that the the benefit of aligning with the school year is that it also aligns with the time frame in which you would expect goal achievement and as well as resource availability. I mean, we typically we typically measure student achievement outcomes on a on a school year basis. So that would align more with the school year calendar.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: And we as a board provide resources that are based on the school year and not the election cycle. So I wanted you to get a look at what dates

[14911-63] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity School Board Chair | 2023-02-16
PREV> Rocco Ruggeri: board member, if you come into the beginning of an evaluation or the middle of the evaluation, just playing catch up, I think it just be the whole evaluation process in line with the school year, with the data that's being evaluated, just seems cleaner.
TEXT> Yeah. One question is one, exactly. Will we be getting that data? So we may be assuming that we're getting data a certain, you know, pressure point or but when when are we going to get a data achievement. Yes. Student achievement.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We should have most of that in.

[14911-71] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity School Board Chair | 2023-02-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The state at one point. From the state. At the end of.
TEXT> The student. But we could evaluate those. That's what I'm kind of looking at is like, where are we in six months? And to be able to well, one of the things I know we've talked about at unity, and I know you've talked about it in Claremont because we stole your idea,  is the calendar for the school board. And one of the things we've added to our calendar is updates on student achievement. Now we just have one small school. And so it's a lot easier for us to collect achievement data. But I mean, just I ready  data. And whatever else is available.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's three times a year, right?

[14911-148] Steven Horsky | SAU 6 Board Member (Claremont) | 2023-02-16
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Heather, did you want to go.
TEXT> So I think as far as. The the community feedback piece is the, the piece that I've kind of been waffling here and I think we all get enough emails with feedback positive and negative. I think we get that on a regular basis. So I think as far as what we're trying to achieve with this, at least in my understanding of what we're trying to do, is we're trying to evaluate the performance of the superintendent upon his peers, his staff members, and how our children are in at the same time. The comeback is, are we being enough of a support to that? So  as far as I'm concerned, I think that the community piece is the piece I lose in this because we get their feedback, they have our emails, some even have my phone number, oddly enough, don't know how, but they do. It is what it is. So I think the community piece is the piece that I think creates way too much extra work, because I know I get enough emails to tell me that people aren't happy at times. Sometimes they are more often than not, not happy. But moving on, the real thing that we're trying to do is direct the educational process of the children, the outcomes and achievements of the children, and the workability between the two bodies, the governing body and the administrative body. So that's kind of where I would leave it. That's my opinion, Heather.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We get our evaluations every three years, so either we get reelected or we don't. So to me that's like that's it. That's what the community says. And we either

[14911-174] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity School Board Chair | 2023-02-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: one, I know I've seen it and we have the averages on that. I think that's that's all I have for the right everything off as well. But I do think I agree, if we should have at least an update on a regular basis.
TEXT> Any questions. We have, we posted for the positions for mikes. All those were posted okay. I bet.  Yeah, yeah. We don't want to leave you short. Okay. There's no questions. Okay.  Number four, the proposed board meeting calendar. We've mentioned a few things that need to be on that calendar. We've talked about the review cycle that needs to be. Put on a calendar.  This year it came I became very aware of the fact that we need budget. On their very. Carefully, because we missed having a hearing for the say in December, which is when we should have had it. And so we need to put that on. So I'm thinking that we need to, have a meeting specifically focused on, a say board calendar, and it should include a on student achievement or whatever else we need towards our evaluation process. So what I'm going to I would like to continue this on another meeting moving forward, and would like you each to bring thoughts on what you think needs to be included on an Say calendar, and I will as well. And actually, if you want to email me, I will put a calendar draft calendar together that we can discuss next time.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: So yeah, why don't you do that? Why don't you all email me things that you think should be on a calendar, things that we don't routinely have and should

[14937-25] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - presents the ESSER I/II/III grant up | 2023-03-01
PREV> Mike Koski: this whoops, this other question. So in addition to addressing academic learning loss, what other areas did you think students needed. And it was again, social emotional learning stuff and then technology to upgrade devices and software and things like that to access the learning.
TEXT> And then here's our current state with those three grants. So Esser one, the entire allocation has been spent and reimbursed and it is closed. SR two. We have an allocation. We were granted 2.879 million. We have budgeted 2.6 of that. Reimbursement not reimbursed. But  yeah, reimbursed is 400,000. The bulk of that is waiting. We spend it first. State reimburses us for that.  And and those have to wait until the end of this school year for much of that money to get reimbursed.  There's still  about 200,000 left to be budgeted. Much of that will go to summer programs and  vacation camps and things like that that have not yet occurred.  And then after three, we have  6 million, 6.4. Of that, 6 million has been budgeted. And you can see the things that it's been budgeted for there. We're working with Sullivan County to have a dental program for our students at hired academic coaches, put together advisory committees for curriculum. We really updated the science labs. We spent about $60,000 to buy all new science,  software and data collection equipment. We greatly increased the music department's  instrument budget. About $100,000 worth of instruments allows our students to rent those instruments, all the way up through,  grade 12.  We have social emotional screening tools that are being used in the elementary schools. Funding for emergency placements. We've got parent engagement programs planned, and this runs until 2020 for the SR three program.
NEXT> Mike Koski: So you can read the rest there and then. Go to a summary slide. And so we have our allocated money for two the budgeted and the budgeted amounts for

[14937-43] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair; reports out the ad hoc parliamentary-procedur | 2023-03-01
PREV> Mike Koski: Do you want to like, sell compared to
TEXT> However however it's budgeted and then we can take a look at it and then we can kind of parse out and say, well, it looks like we've added $450,000 worth of, you know, positions, you know, you know, getting more folks in. And are we paying for that with Esser money or are we paying that, you know, or versus being budgeted? And we should know in particular, if the community is starting to rely on these resources. And is there a way that we can identify what programs are actually moving the needle, to meet the needs of the students? I know we had an issue last year where we had a great summer program that anecdotally people said was beneficial, but we were unable to get the data to support whether or not that summer program actually was impacting academic achievement. And as a district, we should be preparing for if we can identify that this summer program is really moving the needle, then we need to start thinking about budgeting for it with real dollars. So  that's one question I had. So blah blah blah. And definitely, you know, how are we evaluating the effectiveness of these interventions. Do we have any tools in place?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: To kind of again, tell us whether the interventions that we're putting in a place are actually meaningful? Because it would be very difficult for me to support maintaining a

[14937-59] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair; reports out the ad hoc parliamentary-procedur | 2023-03-01
PREV> Mike Koski: with the money. Here's how we're going to do it. Here's how it's going to be a and then they approve or don't approve that activity. So sometimes they send back questions. So there is an evaluation piece with each of those. Whether you know.
TEXT> It usually like if they're not really meaningful evaluation tools that tell us whether I mean I think they're kind of like we you know, we write, it's worked or we get them the state of the or the feds what they want, but it doesn't really tell us anything meaningful. So are we able to come up with some evaluation tools that we meaningful specifically to our district versus kind of these global nebulous? It worked or it didn't work, because if something works, we should consider keeping it. If something doesn't, then we should absolutely not even entertain it. But if we're sending back to the state, well, it worked. Then there's going to be an argument to be made for keeping it, when in reality it really isn't serving our students and our money could be used better elsewhere.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Okay. Thank you.

[14937-103] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - presents the ESSER I/II/III grant up | 2023-03-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Oh, yeah.
TEXT> So having the right tools makes it easier to, to deliver the instruction. But I don't know if that is necessarily going to be measurable as improved student outcomes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: No, I mean, I know it's hard to measure. That's all I have on a certain.

[14937-111] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair; reports out the ad hoc parliamentary-procedur | 2023-03-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Right. That's that's one time money, right?
TEXT> That's the one time money. But I don't think those kids are going to need at one time.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Correct. It's annually moving forward, however long they're in, that the intention is always to bring them back. But so that's a concern. And you have to realize when we

[14937-119] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - presents the ESSER I/II/III grant up | 2023-03-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: I just have two. Two questions. I see three. There are two. Parent engagement. I wondered what that what that was.
TEXT> Well, we made some plans.  Obviously, part of what we need to do is engage our community more to and think that would have an impact on student learning. So we had plans for something called the Strengthening Families program, which is out of Iowa State. And then another program called face, which I think is family active  community engagement or something like that. We haven't been able to begin implementing either of those programs at this point. It just isn't something we've been able to get to.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So what's what's been the problem with implementation.

[14937-133] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair; reports out the ad hoc parliamentary-procedur | 2023-03-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: went to a conference, what he learned at the conference, and you can share the board stuff that he's hearing from other superintendents, and also will give an opportunity for questions that were asked at a previous board member a board meeting to be answered.
TEXT> Sometimes citizens asked questions, and it's not  reasonable to expect  that our  that everybody here is necessarily going to have the answers to those questions. But the public does deserve to have answers done in a public way. And so we've requested that in the subsequent meeting that the superintendent answer the questions that were asked by the public during the superintendent's report, we also kind of thought we could make the student representative report a little bit more targeted and perhaps give that poor representative some assignments for, for instance,  if we've done a schedule change at the high school, maybe the superintendent, the  representative can come up with a survey to find out how the kids are doing with it, how the new food service is going. So we can kind of give them assignments and make them a little bit more part of the governmental process. The other big thing that we came up with was that coming up with a calendar that's going to be pre-populated annually so that board members know what to expect month by month, and what they should be preparing for.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And also what, that's a year. Office is going to be should be preparing for. And one of the big things on this pre-populated calendar is going to be, presentations

[14986-93] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - presides over the election of SAU 6 officers,  | 2023-03-30
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the restoration of the Dow building. In addition to rebuilding financial integrity caused by a multitude of troublesome legacy issues we have now. Excuse me. We have strong employees and processes in place to ensure that finance, operations and HR run smoothly in the future.
TEXT> I realize there are still important projects to be completed, however, and accordingly, I can be available to the A oh six on a contract basis to assist my replacement. Best wishes for your continued efforts on behalf of the community, students and educators. And yours, Richard Seaman. What  has been taking a little bit of time  is to  we've been busy reaching out to consultants who can come on board and help with the transition. So we have a commitment from David Jack that  in who we will be here Monday to start transitioning with Richard.  And obviously in the entire team for, for the week. I have spoken to Michael Campo who is the. Director at our auditors, and he also can provide any  assistance with the audit report. David, Jack is a specialist who has worked in the region, most recently at Fall Mountain, helping them last year when they didn't have a BA. I was very aggressive in trying to get someone, as I know there are several, and we're going to post the position as soon as possible. There are several, business administrator openings in the region, as is just in the southwest. I know for right now. So we're going to we're going to aggressively go after that. And, David Jack has 35, 40 years experience, just a really respected BA. So, we were we were lucky to lock that down as quickly as possible.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And some connections to some of our staff including Mr.. Were excuse me Mr.. Kosky kosky to skis. All right so but so it's we're that that's that situation. So

[14986-98] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - presides over the election of SAU 6 officers,  | 2023-03-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: Verbiage.
TEXT> 17 girls in troop 3261  led by  troop leader who reached out to me.  Oh, about a month ago or so. And  the heroes that the girls wanted to honor this year were the the teachers in the region. And this troop has students from unity.  Leinster, Newport,  Claremont. And it's just a tremendous effort.  They they raised they sold 17 girls, sold 15,000 boxes of cookies for each thousand  student would get an iPad. They gave away ten iPads. What was really neat to hear about that, in the spirit of the Girl Scouts taking me back to my daughters in their days. But the is a lot of the students who were the aggressive sellers and did really well, also helped out their peers so they could get they donated their sales. So everyone worked as a team, so kids got as many iPods as possible. So those we have those  and we're going to be distributing those out there was fortunate enough. And you see the picture we had,  we went up in  to  bluff and met with the students and also at unity and at unity, they it was kind of cool. They actually had had the props that you see there. The girls hit to the classrooms and the teachers were still around and they gave them out right, right then and there.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And it was just a really nice effort. So they are our, you know, the name of it was oh, I if you you don't you don't need it. I

[14986-116] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Mike Koski: that grant. We're really the only nearly full or complete district that's participating in that. And that grant is, teaching administrators and educators in how to how to improve the coaching cycle of the practice of, of teachers in the classroom and what they're doing.
TEXT> So administrators are in the midst right now of a seven week training process where they're learning how to,  lead their team, that they will designate of teachers. Each each participating school will have a team of teacher leaders. Those leaders will then participate in a two year training, where they will learn to become coaches of their peers in a non evaluative way. So they'll go in and they observe and they help and they help plan. And just exactly what an athletic or a musical coach or teacher would do. Except it's all geared towards the practice of teaching. How do you better engage? How do you better reach kids? How do you better manage the classroom, better plan and pace lessons and things like that? And so we're really excited about this opportunity.  And we think it's going to have a big impact on how our students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Learn.

[14986-155] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated in the record | 2023-03-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: And and how do you pass out the identified students. So I'm maybe I'm just being thick here. But if this is to include our identified students, if we have a higher concentration of students than another district, how does that.
TEXT> Than our numbers would be a little skewed. And I do want to say that just because they're identified doesn't mean they're automatically in red or yellow necessarily. I mean, we've if they're making progress and they may exit special education, they could be part of our green zone. So we don't want to confuse that. But as far as MTS, the multi-tiered system of supports, which is how we identify students for specific learning disability, we really should only be targeting that 20% group. So and that's based off the population of peers. So our students here in Claremont may look different than a neighboring district that has higher levels of achievement. So our norm for our bottom tier of needing support would be different than a school that has 80% on level. Does that make sense?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Some level, yeah.

[14986-158] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (SAU 6 Board member) - chair recogni | 2023-03-30
PREV> Stephanie: So it's for that targeted support system.
TEXT> So we're presuming that we have roughly 25% of our kids are identified or 20%.
NEXT> Stephanie: I don't know those numbers.

[14986-162] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (SAU 6 Board member) - chair recogni | 2023-03-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: 324 last.
TEXT> Time 23% of our students are identified.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah, yeah. So roughly a quarter.

[14986-186] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated in the record | 2023-03-30
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: I'm taking.
TEXT> In the continuity. So to be able to have the same thing happening across the district in all first grade classrooms, all third grade classrooms.  Another thing that we can show you at a later time is we've been pulling research on how much time teachers spend looking for high quality instructional materials. And at the end of the day, you only have so much time. They have families of their own that they're trying to take care of. And at the end of the day, they may say, this is the best I have time to provide for my students. So it's really our responsibility to find them, those high quality materials. And we have teachers who have created things that are better than any publisher I've ever looked at. So we're also trying to find a way to be able to share those resources with the rest of the district and use what we have. Homemade PD is what I call it. Cool. Yeah.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you. I want to agree with what was said about the coaching model. And I think that's a very powerful tool for teachers to be able to meet with

[14986-190] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Steven Horsky: Anything else?
TEXT> Goes. Mentioned a couple of things.  Stephanie mentioned that we're moving  the focus in reading instruction. Same. A similar thing is occurring in math where we're moving away from kind of mimicking calculations to problem solving approach for math. So how do I apply these problems. How do I apply these equations. How do I apply this understanding of patterns to a situation. We were probably I know I was I was taught teacher went up on the board and I mimicked it. And then that was math. And then I could repeat it later. You can go to Google and just type in words for any math problem and get an answer. Now we need our students to be able to problem solve with those math skills. And so those kind of shifts are  going to take a little bit of time, and it's going to be a little uneven progress. But  I think we're we're got ourselves pointed in the right direction.  And we're going to we're going to see Stephanie mentioned kind of slow  slow growth. But I expect to see that on a curve picking up in the near future.
NEXT> Mike Koski: One other thing I just want to mention Stephanie got a warded or got nominated to be a finalist by one of our principles as a Science of Reading Star

[14986-206] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated in the record | 2023-03-30
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: So can I just something so.
TEXT> It's important to know that we're looking at all of the grade levels in that data. Some grade levels are doing better than others that we've mentioned before, such as kindergarten who those children are receiving explicit onyx instruction, phonemic awareness. All of those things are taking place right now. They're making exceptional growth. So I mean, when you look at grades, for instance, you ever have you ever received a report card and you had a lot of hundreds, but you had a few really low grades, right? And it brings everything down.  That's more of our pocket of kiddos who are really struggling since Covid. They didn't have that instruction. They didn't have the language immersion. But our K-2 groups, one of our schools has 78% growth this year. And they're and they're all doing that well. So I mean, it's it's really good to see. So when we are able to present to you because this looks kind of grim, like when you look at it the way it is now.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I understand.

[14986-210] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated in the record | 2023-03-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: That would be my prediction to where it's grades 3 to 5 would be the most heavily impacted by Covid, and K through 2 or 1 would be the least impacted by Covid because they weren't.
TEXT> And those teachers at three through five, you know, they need to shout out also because they're having to implement things in their intervention that they've never taught from lower grades. So they're actually teaching, you know, multiple different grade levels of information to help catch those kids up. And they're seeing gains as well.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But I think it's important for people to to I think it's important to desegregate it as much as possible to, to really get to the root cause.

[14986-216] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: or as an saw on how we're going to prevent those progressive losses when a kid moves forward and they haven't gotten it, and then they keep moving forward and they're just getting less and less and less because they have nothing to build on.
TEXT> Yeah. Yeah. We we're having those discussions. There's I'm not aware of any, any  educational research that says the student benefits by being held back. However,  it almost always shows a negative educational results for the for the student, particularly the higher you get. So, you know, if someone  who repeats first grade much lower impact than someone who repeats seventh or eighth grade. And so yes, we're looking at those, but currently our policy says that's allowed. We have discussions with the parents. The parents and people are allowed to present to the board to make the case. And if it's in, everybody agrees it's in their best interest. Then retention can can occur.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So do they have mandatory summer school? Is there anything mandatory you can do to help these kids? So before they enter.

[14986-217] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (SAU 6 Board member) - chair recogni | 2023-03-30
PREV> Mike Koski: those, but currently our policy says that's allowed. We have discussions with the parents. The parents and people are allowed to present to the board to make the case. And if it's in, everybody agrees it's in their best interest. Then retention can can occur.
TEXT> So do they have mandatory summer school? Is there anything mandatory you can do to help these kids? So before they enter.
NEXT> Mike Koski: I mean that may become one intervention, but then we're still left with that decision at the end of summer school, right? I mean, so we can we can, certainly

[14986-222] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: show us making great gains. My question has to do with the state meeting of outcomes. We're well below the state expected level. Will needs assessments and instructional strategies help that as well. Is there a correlation between that? Are you seeing any of that?
TEXT> Yeah I believe there is a correlation. It would be a pretty bad state test if there were no correlation to these norm tests.  The other piece is that what I've learned is that there wasn't a lot of emphasis placed on preparing students for these state tests in the past couple of years. We did miss one year due to Covid,  but our students are not, for the most part, haven't been become very familiar with the format of the test or how the test operates and how they have to,  put effort into it and why it's important. So we're working on improving that. Teachers are integrating  practice questions into their  classroom subject matter so kids students can see this is what the test looks like. Here's how I can use some strategies.  Ela, specifically the middle school has has created a whole unit on test taking strategies not just for the state test, but for all test taking situations. And so we think that we're going to see some benefit this year from, from that practice.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And it's probably less teaching to the test than teaching the outcomes.

[14986-224] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And it's probably less teaching to the test than teaching the outcomes.
TEXT> Yeah, it is not.  I know there's you know, nobody wants to teach to the test. But kids are going to take tests for a long time. Might as well learn how to do that and be smart with it. Right? Sure. And  you know, you if anybody ever failed their driver's written test, you study it and you look and you learn a little bit more. And the next time you get better at it and you may or may not have more knowledge, but you certainly have more knowledge about how to take that test. And that becomes important. It's just another skill on how to read the room, how to read the situation. And  so we we have our teachers instructing our kids in that way.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: All right. I would like to move on to the website technology update.

[14986-240] Steven Horsky | SAU 6 Board Chair - elected at this meeting 6-5 over Marjorie Erickson | 2023-03-30
PREV> Jeff Small: I'd have to research that.
TEXT> The reason I'm asking is, is because it seems like a no brainer for this building is to have a technology integration program or something like that, and then we could literally farm it in our own house. We're yeah, we're paying a salary to do it, but it's going to be a live action all day while the kids are in class. Just just something thinking outside the box on because why not utilize the youth in our community, our our children to help us one grow and find them a career outside of it? Because you never know, you could end up with a turnkey student that could fill some roles, and it would only make sense to keep them in Claremont, not ship them out to Hanover, Lebanon, or out of the state. Just an idea.  I'm currently looking at the website. It's definitely different than the last time I did.  Maybe that's because I don't look at the website enough because of how frustrating it was. The only thing that sticks out to me is where the bubbles are for employment. Student registration. I'd like to see board policies go there as well, because that's one thing that parents do ask about is what's your policy for this?
NEXT> Steven Horsky: What's your policy for that? It'd make it easy. You'd have your say you Claremont unity. So on and so forth. Readily accessible. They don't even have to be big

[15003-36] Hannah Petrin | Student Representative, Stevens High School (ASR 'Hannah Patron') | 2023-04-05
PREV> Hannah Petrin: high school had SOS suicide presentations last week and advisories. The seniors are performing The Beverly Hillbillies on April 13th of 15. The show is at seven, doors open at 630 and is $5 to get in and all the profits for the senior class.
TEXT> Musical theater has their performances on the 25th and 26th of May, and com is May 6th at the high school, and the National Technical Honor Society is reaching out to tech students to invite them to join the National Technical Honor Society. These students must have at least a 3.0 GPA, no conduct violations, and a recommendation from a tech teacher as well as another teacher. They're planning their last culinary luncheon, and it will be held on April 14th from 1130 to 1230. The menu is smoked brisket and chicken. There will be a special guest chef teaching students how to smoke the meats tickets at $8 each and can be purchased at the administrative office. There are only 50 seats available, so make sure you get your tickets before they run out. The Technical Career Day is scheduled for 11 to 1. On May 11th, lunch will be supported by North Country Smokehouse and cooked by the culinary students. Employers interested in attending may contact the Tech Center admin  office to sign up.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. I heard a rumor that somebody might have gotten accepted to you and H. Is that you? Yeah. So. Okay, we'll move on to Superintendent Report.

[15003-43] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 — presides over the officer election, then calls | 2023-04-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: biggest point I want to make tonight, particularly with the work of the Vision and committee, is, I absolutely applaud the, the the efforts to add more Co grams into more utilize the amazing opportunities that we've had over the years here at the tech.
TEXT> And I want to put this forward and I can present this and we can work with the vision and committee as well. I think the easiest way to control that and the benefit for most of,  of, of our students, particularly the large amounts that don't go to college, and this is completely within the purview of the school board, is to say, hey, you know, we are down for this. Let's make it a requirement. Let's make that you for graduation. You have to have that. You have to have other graduation requirements, minimum state standards. But if if this is a community value and it absolutely is that we've heard loud and clear, let's, let's, let's make it that you have to do that. And they're variations of that. You could have people fulfill that requirement in one of the levels you could have applied to,  you know,  intro courses or something like that. But let's I, I  say we, we embrace it and even look to have as, as, as was presented before embedded credits and maybe even some other  we had a, I thought a pretty robust and interesting meeting today, looking at  other types of program building that we could if we added a part time teacher up here.  As we said before, maybe we embed credits, maybe we do other things. So maybe maybe we go that way on that and we'll talk about that also as another time. Right. And.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's, that's all I, that's all I have for mine. I also have another the curriculum committee is going to talk about, some of the instructional materials. And we, we

[15003-45] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: know that we have another meeting coming up, and we could probably gather questions and things like that and talk about it and maybe make a vote on that two weeks from now. Might, might, might be a better, better plan. Take it away, Steph.
TEXT> So this isn't just to our elementary schools all about selecting high quality materials, because we've been doing a piloting program this year to make sure that we have high quality materials in the hands of students. And, thank you. So two, few of our students are making, not adequate progress in their academic work. And so we know that. What are we going to do about it? We can admire the problem. I don't know where we heard that recently, but we can admire the problem. Or we can put, you know, feet to the ground and and get moving. And I think the number one thing that we need to do is get high quality materials for, for the teachers. And so we have fun that's been piloted. We also have Haggerty. They've already been using at K-5. So we looked at the comprehension piece of that. So Hegarty is your phonological awareness. Then you have foundations which is more phonics and phonemic awareness.  There's, there's a bit of that in both Hegarty and Foundations. And then you have wit and wisdom which is your comprehension in your writing strand.
NEXT> Stephanie: And so, we piloted two different programs this year. One was Kayla. That's a core knowledge language arts, and the other one was Witan wisdom. And so we, Yeah, we

[15003-51] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: I thank you, Stephanie. So could you in the context of of this define for us what high quality means.
TEXT> So you would have text complexity that is appropriate for each grade level. So when when students are interacting with text they would be  interacting with vocabulary. That's rich academic vocabulary but content vocabulary as well.  The latest research on the science of reading tells us that students need to be explicitly taught, you know, in the classroom, there's no more guessing or encouraging them to. Oh, you'll figure it out. The more you read the the the better you'll get. It's explicit instruction in the area of  phonological awareness that we refer to as PA phonemic awareness and phonics. They need that explicit instruction. But in addition to that, in the writing field, the materials that we have here, you're not separating writing into a separate category. So students would be interacting with materials and building that knowledge, and then also writing about those  reading exercises as they go through their instructions. So there's no more like, okay, now it's time to write. Okay. Now it's time for us to read. Okay. Now it's time for us to work on handwriting. It's not separated. It's all intertwined together in a rich literacy block.
NEXT> Stephanie: So the materials that we use to be able to catapult that learning matter, because that's the the base, that's like the foundation. And we have teachers who are going

[15003-56] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: programs from the slide that had the five, programs on the screen. I see the only wit and wisdom covers grades four and five, and I'm just wondering if that program is the complete, I guess, Ela curriculum for those grades and if that's sufficient.
TEXT> So we will have to build a bridge as to how I'm referring to it. For our students who haven't had all of these programs from kindergarten through to the fourth grade, we'll have to build a bridge of a different program that's supplemental. We can use some of our federal funds for that. Some of the things we're using right now are  95% group multi syllabic words. But it all has to do with the continuum of when you teach what. So our kindergartners coming in next year and many of our kindergartners this year have received the full scale instruction that they need. But if we look to next year, those students would receive everything they need to be successful in kindergarten. And then first grade teachers aren't having to pick that up and also teach what they needed in kindergarten and first grade. But  once you get to third, fourth, and fifth grade, those teachers are going to have to put in a little extra work the first few years because those kids haven't had all of that. Some of them have, some of them haven't we? We don't have a,  consistent program at this time. Teachers are just piece milling things together, using what they can and doing the best they can with what we've given them.
NEXT> Stephanie: So for each of these programs, they only go through to the skills that those students need at that grade level. And it's expected that by the time they get

[15003-70] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Stephanie: fractions, multiplication, division, decimals, all kinds of things. You're going to have to teach all of that before you can expect them to know how to do order of operations. Right. So in the same way, literacy is just a lot more difficult to explain.
TEXT> So that's why I like to use that analogy. But if you if you think about them in the same way, we need to know when do we should be teaching what to our students. And we need to provide  certain materials to teachers to be able to do that. One of the educators that I work with, she actually turned me on to this really cool book called the ABCs and All Their Tricks. So when I was a teacher, I used to just tell kids, that's just the English, English language. That's how we spell that word. That's not true. I failed those kiddos, right? There's a reason why every word is spelled the way it is in this book tells you that. And so if we have those resources that myself and my advisory boards are able to go through and kind of pick out some starting points for teachers, they're going to take it and run with it. And so it's really nice to be able to look at all of those pieces.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Thank you.

[15003-87] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair — elected chair at this meeting | 2023-04-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I agree.
TEXT> Great. I think we can also,  when we have our retreat and we talk about the strategic plan, there may be an opportunity to really kind of lay out a timeline and a stepwise fashion on how to proceed, to make sure that those concerns are addressed and that we can have documented follow ups and we can populate in that agenda. And and I think we can we can serve the public and the board well by doing that. Thank you. And  as long as it's reflected in the minutes that no one on the board objects to the recommendation  by Superintendent Tempesta to hold back on moving forward in the reconfiguration. I think we're good, unless anybody has any concerns about that and would like to  discuss moving forward otherwise. Yeah. So if the minutes reflect that, now we're going to move forward under discussion and action items. Stevens High School youth and government. Government is me.
NEXT> Unidentified: And Alex was able to come and join us after practice. This year we have seven students who are planning on going to the Youth in Government trip next week.

[15003-88] Unidentified | Stevens High School Youth & Government advisor (staff) | 2023-04-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: think we're good, unless anybody has any concerns about that and would like to discuss moving forward otherwise. Yeah. So if the minutes reflect that, now we're going to move forward under discussion and action items. Stevens High School youth and government. Government is me.
TEXT> And Alex was able to come and join us after practice.  This year we have  seven students who are  planning on going to the Youth in Government trip next week.  And  a lot of them have been brave and taken on parts that they don't usually do.  Aubrey Herzog tried out for speaker of the House, although she didn't get voted in. She is taking on the job of being a lobbyist, at which I'm sure she's going to be excellent.  We also had  Michelle,  who's going to be on  the governor's council, which Aubrey was on last year. Alex is a first year youth and government student who, bravely took on being a co-chair of a committee, and we've been training him up the last few weeks, and he's working hard on his parliamentary procedure. They have a lot of legislation.  We I took pride in the fact that we were the first to get all our paperwork in this year, and and  we had more legislation than a lot of the schools, even though we only have seven students in our delegation.  Alex created a bill, two bills. Actually, he's got one bill about LED lights underneath vehicles and another one on funeral pyres in New Hampshire that he wrote at my goading.
NEXT> Unidentified: We also have some legislation that is related. Another one on roads. Another student, wrote some legislation about amending a current bill that was passed last year in regards to

[15003-106] Sean LaPlante | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (ASR 'Sean the plant', 'Mr. | 2023-04-05
PREV> Sean LaPlante: it's 25 years of age with a valid license and car insurance. And they're approved by the parent. This is the only solution I can come up with. This is a temporary one. This isn't this doesn't have to be permanent. But since we. Can't.
TEXT> Give the obligation that we don't, we can't fulfill the obligation that we have for these kids to provide bussing for them, for these opportunities. So this is the only way we can do it. Yeah.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Cool. Thank you.

[15003-126] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2023-04-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So you're suggesting to make sure that the signature is actually the parent signature?
TEXT> Have it notarized, because then at least that the person signed it is who they say they are,  instead of the kids just scribbling on it.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So to summarize, though, if you vote affirmative on this motion, if the attorney says does not advise, then the waiver will not be approved.

[15003-139] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair — elected vice chair at this meeting | 2023-04-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So that's a that's the that's the most common one that I've heard there.
TEXT> So if you've got if you've got the, the 15 person van for those kids whose parents can't take them and you've does the balance of your biggest team to those parents.
NEXT> Sean LaPlante: Probably not. Now with the 40, not with the 40 plus team, there's there's probably no way because most of those parents are going to be working. They're probably getting

[15003-151] Sean LaPlante | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (ASR 'Sean the plant', 'Mr. | 2023-04-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: On the way back on the way, there is a different animal.
TEXT> But we have had parents in the past, both me and Doug in the past, where say that a kid is going to an appointment, they cannot make the bus departure. Is it on to me? It's not on the kid. It has nothing to do with the kid. So I say, yes, you can drive your kid to the game and they can. He can play. Usually we don't allow if they don't make the bus, we don't have them play. And I've done that in the past. Usually it's because the kid had detention or did something that they shouldn't have, and they were late for the bus or whatever that is on the kid. Not not an appointment.  And I know Doug, Doug has done that in the past for high school as well. So if we can do that for that circumstance, we're not providing a bus. It's not on the kids, right?
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Because we sorry. Because we knew this was a challenge last year that we didn't have a solution for. But the training program was a potential solution. I'm curious as

[15003-152] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2023-04-05
PREV> Sean LaPlante: that is on the kid. Not not an appointment. And I know Doug, Doug has done that in the past for high school as well. So if we can do that for that circumstance, we're not providing a bus. It's not on the kids, right?
TEXT> Because we sorry. Because we knew this was a  challenge last year that we didn't have a solution for. But the training program was a potential solution. I'm curious as to why in the last 12 months, more people haven't been trained and and even though, like now it's an emergency, it wasn't an emergency six months ago, which would have given you a two month window to have already been trained. And so I, I agree that the kids need to get to their sports and we need to have a complete season. But if if this were approved, like I kind of want to change the motion altogether, if this were approved, I would want it to be temporary. Like if we decide to go against the attorneys recommendation allows a waiver that it could only be allowed for this season, and that coaches need to be trained to drive busses for next season. You have 12 months.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So are you asking to amend Steve's motion or should we vote? Or.

[15003-178] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School counselor; unified basketball coach; Ward 1 | 2023-04-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Of the office.
TEXT> Okay. But for but for parents who work, ask him to get a notary. If they work during typical working hours. That's a barrier right there. So I'm concerned about that for kids who's paying? A lot of our parents do work hours that don't want to be able to get a notary from a bank or from the district or anything. So that's a concern I have, because that's putting a barrier in the kids being able to pay for it, which I don't think any of us want to do in this room by just think that's an important thing to think about. And two is a coach. We need to your point about coaches having to be trained to drive busses. I don't know how I feel about that as a coach.  I don't I'm not a personal coach in high school coach. So our bussing isn't an issue.  But I have driving sometimes. Like, I have trouble driving myself down a road. Sometimes I wish to drive a bus full of kids down. Having to be a condition of me being able to coach in the district. I think that's a slippery slope to put on coaches. So those are just my two thoughts I wanted to put in front of you guys for things you didn't thought about. Sorry.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I have that. If a discussion is closed, we can have another comment for three minutes from a public number.

[15003-231] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School counselor; unified basketball coach; Ward 1 | 2023-04-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Second. All in favor? Aye. Sorry to the discussion. Okay.
TEXT> I'm Mimi, this is Matt.  We run the unified sports program at the high school. I coached unified basketball. He does unified track.  And so we have  this past year, had a great problem. I guess you could say we've had a lot of kids want to do unified sports, which is fantastic. Unified sports is a chance for students with disabilities to participate  in varsity sports with their peers. So in basketball,  it's partners and players. Players are the kids with disabilities. They score,  the partners there to help with the gameplay, keep the game moving, play defense, that type of thing.  And it's the best thing in the world.  One of my favorite thing about Working Stevens is coaching unified basketball.  The games are a blast. I encourage you guys come out to them next winter if you're around. And so we when we started doing the program, we really want to get the kids gear because other varsity sports have sweatshirts, sweatpants, all that type of stuff. And we were like, we want our kids to get that. So we started doing a fundraiser  of a concession stand and a football game once a year, and we got these kids super nice jackets, these sweatshirts, these t shirts  and sweatpants.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: And it's all free to the kids. No cost to them at all. And our kids love it. It's a source of pride for them. Just sports on it so

[15003-232] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School counselor; unified basketball coach; Ward 1 | 2023-04-05
PREV> Mimi Rhines: of stuff. And we were like, we want our kids to get that. So we started doing a fundraiser of a concession stand and a football game once a year, and we got these kids super nice jackets, these sweatshirts, these t shirts and sweatpants.
TEXT> And it's all free to the kids. No cost to them at all.  And our kids love it. It's a source of pride for them. Just sports on it so they can wear them for basketball and for track. And even other varsity kids are like, where'd you get the sweatshirt from? Like, they're like, jealous of our gear, which is fantastic. This year I had 26 kids on my basketball team, which is a lot of children for basketball just in general. I had eight new kids on that, so I had to buy all of them this year. Track. You have four new kids who are going to need the gear this spring. He has like sitting in total the fall bill for our for our gear was $980, which is way more than it's been the past. And I said, oh no, this is not going to go well.  And so I reached out to the Brand Foundation, Byrne Foundation. Sorry,  up in Hanover, because they've been generous with our district, as we all know in the past, I explained the program and the gear, that type of stuff, and they gave us $2,000, which is fantastic. We're going to send them a very nice thank you card,  but it'll be enough to sustain us giving the kids the gear for the next couple of years, along with the continued concession. And we'll do in the in the football season. So.
NEXT> Matt Bean: I just want to say a couple of words about unified because it's come, come a staple for for at the high school.

[15003-237] Matt Bean | Ward 1 resident; Stevens unified track and JV football coach | 2023-04-05
PREV> Mimi Rhines: All the same standards of the athletes.
TEXT> Correct. And,  I mean, they have to go to class like there's nothing. And it gives the children with disabilities a chance to get that sports experience that they otherwise probably wouldn't be able to have. So anything that we can give anyone is is amazing and goes towards our program, which is both of our teams are growing.  My team won a state championship last year, so I'm trying to defend a state title with my unified team this spring.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: We did not want to say basketball. Reminds me every single day of my life.

[15003-255] Andy | Vice chair, SRVRTC Visioning Committee; Ward 3 — surname not establish | 2023-04-05
PREV> Andy: own community here in Claremont has expressed its desire for strong programing here. But in 2022, some concern had grown over the strength and perhaps the direction of our own tech center programing, and that concern was publicly addressed at the deliberative session that year.
TEXT> And in the debate over potential budget issues and budget cuts, the community and the administration and the board decided that an appropriate course of action was to convene a committee to study our tech center in its programs, with the goal being to determine how best to maximize the use of the facility for the greatest benefit to the students of Claremont and our sending schools and the greater community. So over the last several months, as Doctor Herzog has indicated,  our committee, which is primarily Sis and volunteers, has familiarized ourselves with the drivers that affect the facility here and its programing. And that's taken a while to help with that. Among other things, we have hosted guests like Doctor Jeff Beard, the administrator of the New Hampshire Bureau for Career Development. We have spoken with Newport City Director Eric Perry, our own high school guidance counselors, Mimi Rhines and Ray Curran. We have looked at variables and barriers to success between Newport and Claremont programs. We have even visited other CTE centers, including Littleton and Berlin. So it's been a process, but that work has culminated with an important milestone, which is what I'm going to share with you in just a moment.
NEXT> Andy: And that is the development of a comprehensive, focused work plan that lays out a process for assessing our programs and facility here, for examining the optimal number of and

[15003-257] Andy | Vice chair, SRVRTC Visioning Committee; Ward 3 — surname not establish | 2023-04-05
PREV> Andy: for CTE courses? Or why is region ten agreements still relevant? Or why do CTE programs cost the way they do? Our plan addresses these and lots of other things, so I can run through it real quick if you want to bring it up.
TEXT> The work plan we've developed is is designed to answer three big questions. How many programs should now be run at our CTE center and what should they be? How can our facility best support current programing, as well as additional growth, and what facility changes would be required for that programing and potential growth? And that includes a closer look at region ten  dynamics. And the work plan will address this by reporting on six broad research areas. In section one of the plan, we examine why it is important for a community like Claremont. That's always important to to continue reiterating the plan calls for collecting relevant data like wage ranges and graduation rates. It'll explain how CTE benefits student achievement, workforce development, and other benefits of supporting CTE in our community in section two. And I'm just going to run over these briefly. We're not going to dive down into every detail at this plan, because we've got something else to cover as well as part of it. So in section two, the plan seeks to uncover data about our facilities, such as the progression of programing, facility utilization, types of programs relative to market needs and growth potential.
NEXT> Andy: It'll look at enrollment data, explore the region ten agreements more. Examine how to maximize things like running start, bridge to college, local opportunities through River Valley Community College, or

[15003-259] Andy | Vice chair, SRVRTC Visioning Committee; Ward 3 — surname not establish | 2023-04-05
PREV> Andy: feasibility study that for that could drive future information for renovations. Section five examines funding mechanisms the committee felt in important to identify any possible funding source for programs, and ultimately for potential renovation needs that exist apart from the potential for new program spaces.
TEXT> And finally, in section six, our plan examines potential success metrics that could be updated if they exist already or implemented if they don't, that would help provide  data that shows how we're doing along the way. The results of a work plan like this will be an actionable document that can serve in a foundational capacity for the future of the program here, the facility here, and its value to our students and our community, which is, I think, what the purpose of the Vision Committee was for. Okay, the work is also crucial because it's going to ensure that our students have access to high quality CTE programs that align with current and future needs in our community and workforce, and that will benefit our students in several ways, including enhancing academic achievement, providing a pathway to advance education and successful careers. Be both locally and beyond. CTE here is not necessarily a stopping point. It's a beginning for other things. Right? So the timeline for this effort, we believe would be would start this spring and wrap up during the fall of 2023. This is a bit longer than we were hoping, but considering the importance of the facility, the programing here, the stakes involved, we feel this needs to be done right and we'd rather be thorough than like super fast and such.
NEXT> Andy: So this is the idea here and this this is a thorough report and the thoroughness hasn't really been undertaken, at least in recent memory, and requires a significant expertise

[15003-260] Andy | Vice chair, SRVRTC Visioning Committee; Ward 3 — surname not establish | 2023-04-05
PREV> Andy: the fall of 2023. This is a bit longer than we were hoping, but considering the importance of the facility, the programing here, the stakes involved, we feel this needs to be done right and we'd rather be thorough than like super fast and such.
TEXT> So this is the idea here and this this is a thorough report and the thoroughness hasn't really been undertaken, at least in recent memory, and requires a significant expertise and effort.  A detailed and well-regarded study was done in 2015 here, and we're happy to have the consultant group that  produced that study. It was well regarded within the community. They're available to us again as you're about to learn.  But this particular study is intended to be a pretty deep dive. So it's an undertaking beyond the resources of volunteers on the committee. And while we're going to be intimately involved in the process, we're not professionals in the area, and the community deserves a very thorough effort. So  I'm pleased tonight to recommend, on the behalf of our committee, the Southern Regional Education Board, as a partner and consultant, to help produce a timely, viable and comprehensive plan that can serve and pave the way toward meaningful improvement. And they are here tonight with their proposal to assist us with our plan. Now, this organization is familiar with our system, having done an extensive report for us here in 2015. That means there's institutional knowledge that they're bringing to our work. They operate in this capacity for schools and communities around the country, and most recently have been working up here in Vermont.
NEXT> Andy: They bring resources to our process that we simply can't find elsewhere. So at this time, I would like to introduce Ivey Coburn, division director of education and workforce with

[15003-268] Ivey Coburn | Division Director of Education and Workforce, Southern Regional Educat | 2023-04-05
PREV> Ivey Coburn: also all feeder schools, and they come back together to basically compare notes and debrief and come up with, of course, our findings. So when we talk about findings, you'll see that bubble up into two components. One component would be strengths of existing programs.
TEXT> So things that we can build upon. And then he challenged and obstacles that we need to dress and make up for that strategic planning component. So with that we'd have that one team and then we'll visit those different campuses. So this would be a four day extensive visit. Now when you're thinking through the career pathway review, this is what I like to call the CPR basics. So I wanted to give you a  snapshot shot of everything that goes along with that visit. So first we'll have the desktop audit. And that's really where we have the updates to the 2015 report. We start digging into all of the data associated with enrollment. And then of course success patterns. So how are our students doing academically? How are they doing with earning credentials? How are they doing as we're transitioning to post-secondary in the workplace. So we have a lot of data that we start to engage with our shareholders around to really understand the  context of the offerings that are there. In that first desktop analysis piece, we also engage our shareholders with an orientation for the visit process itself. We do all of this virtually so that whenever we walk into the campus, our participants have a good background understanding of what that campus offers, what it provides as far as access to CTE.
NEXT> Ivey Coburn: And so we go in there with that lens already in mind, as well as the protocols and procedures that we'll use as a part of the visit. As Andy

[15003-269] Ivey Coburn | Division Director of Education and Workforce, Southern Regional Educat | 2023-04-05
PREV> Ivey Coburn: our shareholders with an orientation for the visit process itself. We do all of this virtually so that whenever we walk into the campus, our participants have a good background understanding of what that campus offers, what it provides as far as access to CTE.
TEXT> And so we go in there with that lens already in mind, as well as the protocols and procedures that we'll use as a part of the visit. As Andy said, we do have focused surveys. Those will go out prior to the visit. And with that, we like to survey students, business and industry, parents, post-secondary counselors, school administrators and all of these focused  surveys are really directed at CTE offerings. Again, trying to dig in. How do students have an understanding that they are there? How do they gain access? How do we support students to navigate through the course sequences? And also how do we support positive placement and student outcomes? As you can see in the third column, that's all that we do while we're on campus. So you remember my proposal was four days in buildings, one day at each of the tech centers, and then a combination of the other campuses that we would visit on day three. So as we're in those buildings were interviewing students, we're interviewing counselors, administrators. We're also looking at artifacts. So what promotional tools or resources are used? What's the course syllabi. So we can look at rigor and then how  certifications and next steps are highlighted in those and any type of assessment piece. So again trying to look at rigor and alignment so we can make sure students have the best  possible program that that we can offer.
NEXT> Ivey Coburn: And then finally you'll see that red area down at the bottom. That is something that we are customizing uniquely for your tech center, so that we can make note

