[17046-10] Don Lavalette | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified; ASR renders the surname 'le | 2025-12-17
PREV> Don Lavalette: despite not having the quote unquote superintendent endorsements. So I'm just going to read my list. Some names will be familiar someone John Bonfiglio, Ralph Davidson, Kevin Fay, Rhonda Barrow, Cathy d'Avignon, Melissa Lewis, Mark Landry, Barry Levine, and I'm sure I missed a few.
TEXT> Common denominator were those folks as they all had extensive classroom experience, respect for the profession, common sense, and all were certainly qualified to lead this school district. All that's to say that just maybe instead of hiring some state approved superintendent with the endorsement, maybe we consider a wide open search for our own educational leader and see what resumes come in and go from there. And let's face it, the current model has not helped our students, our educators, or our taxpayers. It has been a failure. And in closing, I want to thank those folks that are on the retirement list tonight. That's, quite a lot of knowledge it's leaving us. Thanks. Thank you.
NEXT> Matt Bean: Figured I would just form a line. Matt Bean, Ward one. I rise this evening. First, for a point of clarification, since last week, my stipend earnings were blasted on.

[17046-16] Karen Gherardi | Public commenter; district special education paraprofessional (ASR 'Ka | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Not agenda item.
TEXT> Hi, I'm Karen Girardi. I've been in this school district over 30 years. I am passionate about kids. This district is no longer passionate about kids. It's all money. And I wish every single one of you school board members would resign. Because we need new blood with new ideas. Okay. I have no insurance. Why? Because human resources. Let it go. Okay. Nothing. And have they fixed it? No. We are not getting treated the way we should be treated. And I think it's disgusting. I also think that kids are not being treated the way they should. They're not getting the services they need. Not at all. And I don't know who thinks they are. But you're in your own world because they're not.
NEXT> Shayla Duran: Wasn't really planning on speaking, but Matt got me wild up a little bit. So my name is Shayla Duran. I am a temporary the plumbing heating teacher here at

[17046-42] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: about what does it look like? How is it working in things? So, students would come to the regular day once they got back from the ski program, so they would start their day skiing. And so why? Because this is the northern New England.
TEXT> We wanted to make sure we take advantage of it. It's not something that's available in many parts of the country. So to be able to support our local economy  and our local partners, particularly the Mount Ski Club, is willing to help us, especially this year, to provide some for financial assistance.  So we want to make sure we're promoting physical fitness, skill development, goal setting, perseverance,  teamwork. And so the impact on classes. So the process for students to do this, they have to be able to make up their missed work. They can't have any disciplinary actions they want. They have to be able to, you know, be able to participate in the ski program. And the students will be able to stay after school on Mondays if they need to make up any miss work that they weren't able to do during that time. They can plan to get their work ahead of time from teachers. They will be, they will not be scheduled for summative on the program days. And so if there's any assessments and things like that, they would make those up on a certain day to. So  the maximum number of students that were able to participate. We had opened it up to 46 students  and there were two busses and, but we only had enough space to fill one bus, so we had to cut off some, cut off some of the students.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So, this was in because of a generous donation from the son of his ski club, and we would like to see if we could look into this. There was

[17046-71] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: And so with that, we have a very large donation that was potentially being able to come to offset that. So that would pay for band chorus and all kinds of instrumental music supplement for the teacher that is not able to teach full time.
TEXT> So our students at the middle school will be able to access the access. This programing,  it will be a little bit different because it's not completely all during the school day. We're trying to work on the models of what it was, and so we do have a breakdown and that was included in there, and we'll get into that next time. But it's  what we needed was $50,000 and we have what hopefully would be coming we would like to bring before you is almost 49,775 of the just over the $50,000. So the New Hampshire Charitable Trust Foundation,  and you know, wc mc it's been amazing. And so we are just wanting to make sure we get this going. And so I apologize that it's not for tonight. And I apologize middle school students for two days into the next calendar year when we come back. So it's not very far off, but we're hoping that we can bring this forward. And if people are willing to listen to this and accept it,  then we can have this going for music at the middle school very soon.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So completely worn. And Miss Cronenberg knows everybody knows about this. Yes. Okay. So that will go on the January 7th agenda. Okay. Thank you. All right. Moving on to

[17046-101] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: The Finance Committee has been working with Mr. Angel and Miss Kennedy to make recommendations about what should be contained in this next year's budget. Also, excuse me. Please keep in mind that we all agree that there are some factors that we must consider.
TEXT> First and foremost is student achievement. That is our number one  focus. Additional considerations are student and parent experience, building issues, and financial impact. The budget process has been difficult this year. Excuse me. Different than this year from past years. It is important to acknowledge this for what those reasons are. As we have come to understand, last year's budget had many flaws, including missing and incorrect data. Mr. Angel has had to get information corrected in the system before he can put the new budget together. This process has been long and cumbersome. Additionally, we've had to address declining role in our schools. Mr. Angel will be reviewing two models, one based on four schools and one based on three schools. The school board has not yet taken a position on either model. We will look at the information presented tonight, and we will discuss these  at our next meeting on January 7th, 2026. As you will learn about both options, please be aware of the following premises  on which the budgets were built. Number one, there is no reduction in existing teaching staff. There is a redeployment of staff in an effort to improve student achievement by using reassigned staff to work on tier two interventions.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Second, the budget includes pay increases for bargaining groups with multi-year approved contracts, including teachers and paraprofessionals. For nonunion employees. A 3% increase is budgeted. Next budget. Next item the

[17046-111] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay.
TEXT> So good evening, everyone. Thank you so much. You're here to present the two options. We were tasked to present a four school and a three school model. I want to clarify that the four school model is not as schools exist today. So there is a change in the four school model and will present. That is in a few moments what it looks like. But just want to clarify that the four school model is a little bit different, and it does propose a change to the way the schools are set up right now. Okay, so can everybody see this just to make sure you can see. Okay. Our objective tonight is just to make sure every understands we are here to improve the achievement of our students. I don't think anybody would disagree that we want to make sure our students are getting the best education they could possibly get,  which will make sure we have approved academic achievement across all grade levels with this proposed model, reduce the need for support services at all grades in the future, and then improve our graduation rate. I'm hoping we can all agree that that's our end goal.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We want to increase the number of interventionists. We agree that interventionists are really helpful for students that are maybe beyond the tier one level into a tier 2 or

[17046-112] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: will make sure we have approved academic achievement across all grade levels with this proposed model, reduce the need for support services at all grades in the future, and then improve our graduation rate. I'm hoping we can all agree that that's our end goal.
TEXT> We want to increase the number of interventionists. We agree that interventionists  are really helpful for students that are maybe beyond the tier one level into a tier 2 or 3 level. So and that just shows if you've ever seen the triangle of response to intervention, typically everybody's in the 80%. Everybody gets that level of instruction. I mean, every gets 100% of the instruction, 80% of the students typically able to catch on to what's being taught. And you get into the 5 to 15% or that that are needing a little bit more, and then there's a top 5%. They could be in special education, meaning some more services. So  you want to make sure that we can align our grade levels across the district to deal with the declining enrollment numbers. And so the sad fact is that there are fewer students in our schools right now,  and it's projected we're going to go over that in a few moments, too. So we want it to be more efficient and more effective to make sure that your students are getting the best that they can get. So I apologize, I'm sort of back to you. So okay, so our problem statement right now is looking at this hour  levels and all grade levels are not. And they're significantly below where they should be.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I don't think that there's anybody disagree with it. We do our please at some are moving out of some subgroup categories, but also the students are not exactly where

[17046-113] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: are getting the best that they can get. So I apologize, I'm sort of back to you. So okay, so our problem statement right now is looking at this hour levels and all grade levels are not. And they're significantly below where they should be.
TEXT> I don't think that there's anybody disagree with it. We do our please at some are moving out of some subgroup categories, but also the students are not exactly where they need to be proficiency.  So we currently face a significant financial deficit issue. I don't think anybody would disagree with that right now as well.  Our enrollment unfortunately is declining. And so we are going to be getting less state aid beginning in the 2027 year. And so that's something that we have to plan for now. And so this approach is because of that concern about the sufficient support levels we're hearing. And we understand we want to be able to help, as we've said, redeploy staff.  We're not trying to cut staff. We want to just relocate them to better support our students in need.  We do have a  stable, a level of personnel in different schools because of the transitions that were happening.  There's more support in one school over another. We try to keep the, personnel where they were to approach the grade levels from the bluff closure and some other schools, but also finding some different levels of support personnel.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And we want it to them as well. The uncertainty around the number of schools is certainly a issue. You know, we have closed bluff. We still have it as

[17046-114] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: of the transitions that were happening. There's more support in one school over another. We try to keep the, personnel where they were to approach the grade levels from the bluff closure and some other schools, but also finding some different levels of support personnel.
TEXT> And we want it to them as well.  The uncertainty around the number of schools is certainly a issue. You know, we have closed bluff. We still have it as an Arsenal Arsenal, but we want to make sure we're reallocating everything where we can to make maximize the instruction and then just imbalance the number of students. Again, the great thing is we were able to move the bluff students into schools and keep them intact. But because of that, it also created an imbalance in our classroom numbers. And so that is something that's not and it's not equitable for the students, and it's not equitable teachers. It was the right decision for making for this year. And we kept it so that the social emotional level of the students were there. And if they're able to stay with their classrooms. And we didn't change that up. However, it is a very imbalanced system right now. And so some classes are much larger than others. And we would like to try and equity that our short term goals, we want to increase the achievement, of course, for students at all levels and then decrease the gaps. And so within those subgroups we want to make sure.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So typically when we get this the sass testing, there'll be reports about students who are free and reduced special ed different qualifiers. And we want to make sure that

[17046-115] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: much larger than others. And we would like to try and equity that our short term goals, we want to increase the achievement, of course, for students at all levels and then decrease the gaps. And so within those subgroups we want to make sure.
TEXT> So typically when we get this the sass testing, there'll be reports about students who are free and reduced special ed different qualifiers.  And we want to make sure that no matter where you are, all of our students in our school get an equal education and that they're able to be showing their achievement levels commensurate that. So we want to ensure compliance with all of our required services, student services, you know, special ed, ESL,  all of our services that we're providing that is equitable across all grade levels. We want to maximize our resources in time and make sure that our personnel  are across where they need to be. And we're going to propose that with some of the models in a few moments. We want to provide a plan that identifies the strengths and challenges across the schools and what's happening  in that area as well. We want to provide for appropriate staffing for all levels and make sure at the tier one, tier two and tier three levels. We're going to talk about that. What does it look like for staffing? Make sure we have the more staff in each area by the cluster.  We want to again balance the classroom numbers to make sure they're more equitable  and then eventually reduce special education costs because we're addressing a tier one issue,  and that it doesn't revolve into more students at the tier two and tier three level. All right.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So I said this is still lying. Right? Okay. We're consolidating our grade levels across the district, making sure that they're great aligned. I'm going to go over that in

[17046-117] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: of those arrangements. And so teachers right now so there's one grade four classroom and then it Dessner there's a couple grade fours. And so in order for them to be able to have any time to collaborate, somebody has to leave their building things.
TEXT> So this would allow students to  staff excuse me, to be able to collaborate more efficiently in the same building.  Special educators plan the small group instruction that was to work in both of them,  but it also allows for more services. So instead of reduction, I mean repetition of things, we might have a special educator that works in one building with certain group levels in another building, so they're in the same one. And then you can put our staff in the special education department according to the needs and the of the students in that level. Central office will meet with the advisory committees or recommending before January 7th. We'll continue. We've been meeting I have a meeting with the association's. I've been meeting with the superintendents council and a variety of other groups just to kind of get some feedback and to look at things. So we'll continue to meet before the next, school board meeting. All right. It's my turn. You get to go.
NEXT> Matt Angell: All right, so we obtained the Nasdaq enrollment study, and this is our enrollment study is free with our, our membership with Nasdaq and, and why we're considering this change

[17046-118] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: I've been meeting with the superintendents council and a variety of other groups just to kind of get some feedback and to look at things. So we'll continue to meet before the next, school board meeting. All right. It's my turn. You get to go.
TEXT> All right, so we obtained the Nasdaq enrollment study, and this is our enrollment study is free with our, our membership with Nasdaq and, and why we're considering this change in the model. And basically, it's because of projected enrollments declining.  We need to choose a model to promote an increase in student achievement. And just to how you read this is basically what Nasdaq did is they took,  the, the birth rates and they, they kind of extrapolated or projected what, what the number of students are going to be. So in ten years. They're projecting 1089 students districtwide.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And that's compared to our current enrollment of.

[17046-133] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: school it's pre-K to two 3 to 5. And then it allows for general and special education services to be at grade level, options and then a greater focus for planning and delivery. We understand those challenges, right. There's nothing that goes without a challenge.
TEXT> So with each model we understand that the transition is not ideal for putting it out there. We understand that there's  an allocation of resources that allow us to help put a dent into more of the academic needs, and obviously bonus would be some some financial aid assistance as well. But those interventionists will be key to make sure that we have the, you know, the best teachers that we have that are really supporting the academic needs of our students. So if you're interventionist for CMS and, The. High school, then in the three school model, that would potentially be a little a limitation as well, we understand. Either way, it's a loss of a neighborhood school again. And that's something that's really hard to accept. And I understand it's  a challenge where we're at.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Are you having difficulty?

[17046-154] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: So it does minimize the impact to the middle and high school students right now, where the buildings have been designated as schools in need of support by the Doe. And we'll look at the building of the classroom structures and things in a moment.
TEXT> That all right for both models? Teacher student ratios. Both  both models assume anticipated teacher ratios for elementary schools to be around 18 students per teacher. However, there will be some classrooms that have a higher student to teacher student teacher ratio. But none will have a ratio higher than 21. Behavior management. Aligning grades will allow for more developmentally consistent approach to  responding to student needs. Intervention access, reading and math intervention access will improve under both models. Equity. Equity between classrooms will improve with aligned grades under both models, and then safety aligned grades allow for  a balance of safety needs for all students within the grade clusters.
NEXT> Unidentified speaker: Intersection. Success.

[17046-158] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (sub-second fragment) | 2025-12-17
PREV> Matt Angell: now under a three school model. It's $43,968,104 or 1.83% increase, or $788,580. The tax rate would be $18.09 per thousand. Okay. And again, there is no change to the tech center in either of these models. So do you want to talk about bluff?
TEXT> Sure. So there's a couple options. And so Bluff School right now we understand the city and it's not being utilized. And so we are discussing what are the possible future uses of bluff. So we have looked at the alternative education. We do have some programs. And that's where I talked about pride and vision, some other options. And so some of our students are in behavioral programs and all the different levels. There's an option of potentially moving them back or making them into Bluff School. And so that would be serving the behavioral, you know, program model than that. I have recently been meeting with the southwest superintendents, and we were discussing a collaborative model and really looking at options. And so understand. So we actually have a program for behavior students. Other districts don't. There's other districts that have other programs, whether it's an autistic program or something like that, that would meet the needs. And so we would sort of we're, we're playing with or excuse me, not playing with experience, looking into the options of having this consortium started and so that we can each meet each other's needs.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so right now we're sending students out of district at a very high cost, some to Massachusetts, some to Vermont. And so to be able to create some more,

[17046-189] Loren Howard | School Board Member (sub-second onset clipped from the next segment) | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: the best way is to kind of do round robin. So everybody gets an opportunity to, ask a bunch of questions. We can maybe that will generate questions or answer questions that another board member would have asked. So let's start with Mr.. Mr.. Howard.
TEXT> I would. Just hope that at the committee with the superintendent, that the feedback is actually being heard. The feedback that I've heard just in the public so far has been to try to keep these schools k through five next year with the remodeling plan for the future. An interesting thing I thought about was the possibility of phasing kindergarten out of the school so that, you know, a kid wouldn't start kindergarten at one school and then enter first at a different schools, something more phased and just sort of hearing, you know what the staff feels limited by and how they want to approach it feels really important in addition to community members. And so both of these models, to me, that they're jarring. I think they're gonna be jarring to anybody from Claremont. But I think and I could be wrong. So I'm hoping that at the next meeting, we'll hear more about the feedback gathered at these meetings. But, you know, my finger on the pulse of the community seemed that they wanted these two schools to stay k through five next year, but were open to the idea in the future, just so there was at least a, a brief moment of stability for these kids.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Even if we know that it'll be upended again. They can prepare and have a little time to settle in and get more feedback so that we can keep as

[17046-197] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah.
TEXT> I have, and I'm hearing similar things to what Mr. Howard is hearing. So I'm wondering if for the next meeting or somewhere between now and then, what would be the cost of maintaining the schools as they are for one more year? We've relocated our families, our students. I'm looking at the  four school model more favorably because of the amount of disruption than the three school model. The budget impact I'm seeing is greater on the taxpayers. We just got our tax bills. That for school model. But I'm wondering what the cost differential would be to keep them the way they are for one more year, to allow more time for planning to give families time to have input, to not pick up a group of kids again and move them two years in a row. For some kids, it will eventually be three years in a row. And that's really very hard. I did not think this as I started to watch it, but as I'm watching it, I'm thinking the impact on our community.  I'm thinking also,  school model is a lot of planning, a lot of changes, a lot of requirements.  Again,  time our resources.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I just would like to know financially what would be the impact of keeping that model we do have. While it's not ideal, I love interventionist, but I'm. I've said

[17046-225] Tammy Yates | Public commenter; second-grade teacher, Maple Avenue School, and presi | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: be a total of 30 minutes for the non-agenda items. And this format, if we run over the 30 minutes, I will turn it over to the board to make a decision whether or not they want to extend that time. So thank you. Please.
TEXT> Hi. Tammy Yates, second grade teacher at Maple AB school and president of the Sri. I want to address my concerns regarding the restructuring plan that has been proposed over the last three months. As an educator with two master's degree and education, I feel responsible to ensure that the decisions being made are grounded in research and clear understanding of the impact on our students. Research consistently shows that frequent school moves negatively affects students achievement, particularly the younger students. A study by the National Institute of Early Education Research found that for early elementary students head start through fourth grade, each school change is associated with a 3.5 excuse me, 3.35 point decrease in math standardized scores.  While when students experience multiple moves, these academic losses compound. Additional research indicates that elementary students who experience two or more school moves within two years are significantly less likely to meet proficiency benchmarks in reading. Given this research, I have some questions that I would like answered. What data do you have that demonstrates moving students more than two times does not negatively impact learning, attendance, or students well-being? How does moving students multiple times align with the district's commitment to providing a stable and consistent learning environment?
NEXT> Tammy Yates: Since research indicates that academic scores decline with each school move. What matrix will the board use to evaluate the impact of these building changes? And what is the plan

[17046-226] Tammy Yates | Public commenter; second-grade teacher, Maple Avenue School, and presi | 2025-12-17
PREV> Tammy Yates: I would like answered. What data do you have that demonstrates moving students more than two times does not negatively impact learning, attendance, or students well-being? How does moving students multiple times align with the district's commitment to providing a stable and consistent learning environment?
TEXT> Since research indicates that academic scores decline with each  school move. What matrix will the board use to evaluate the impact of these building changes? And what is the plan if student outcomes decline? What specific protections are being put in place for our most vulnerable learners? Special education students. Our English learners. Students that are already performing below grade level, who research shows are disproportionately impacted by frequent school moves. If post move data shows a decline in academic performance or attendance, what is the board's plan to take responsibility and course correct? For these reasons, I respectfully ask the board to maintain a status quo for the coming school year. This will allow students to have an uninterrupted academic year while giving you, as the board, educators, family and community members, the time to collaborate. Develop a well-planned, research based restructuring. Plan rather than the one that is happening now.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[17046-228] Michelle Springer | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identification clipped into the precedi | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Michelle Springer, Blake Ward two. Good evening. Members of the board. And Superintendent. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I'm here to express some serious concerns regarding the proposed or existing 2 or 3 school model, increasing behavioral needs, larger class sizes since Covid and ongoing staffing shortages, particularly the lack of in-person behavior specialists and mental health counselors. Even with proposed decreases in students, as someone with education in special education and behavior analysts over the past several years, student behavioral and mental health needs have increased significantly. At the same time, schools are operating with fewer certified behaviorists, limited access to school based counselors, and growing reliance on virtual services which are not appropriate or effective for many students, especially those with intensive needs. This affects the safety and learning of all students and staff. I also want to clarify the purpose of special education. Special education is intended to be a supportive step designed to help students across grade level learning and return to general education classroom as much as possible.
NEXT> Michelle Springer: While some students may always require more intensive support, they still have the right to belong to their school community. Under the Ida and specifically 34 CFR 300.11 for students

[17046-233] Molly DeLuca | Public commenter, Ward 1; parent and Superintendent Advisory Committee | 2025-12-17
PREV> Molly DeLuca: at CMS. We're dealing with significant issues, behavior issues, vaping, tobacco use, sexual assault. And I just don't understand why you think it's a good idea to put younger students with older students. You're talking a potential 12 year old with an 18 year old.
TEXT> That is just too much. I just I don't know what your safeguards are. I don't know what that plan looks like. We need more planning. The other thing is, have you talked to your teachers and your staff? What is their feedback? I've spoken to so many, and they're left in the dark. It is critical that our educators are part of this conversation because we will not be able to run our schools. There is already concern about teachers leaving next year, and I see a max exodus of teachers. It's going to happen, especially if you go to an extreme circumstance. The other thing is, finally, our students have experienced a tremendous amount of disruption over the past five years, from Covid to the closure of Bluff School. And, you know, everyone is affected by Bluff School with merging with the elementary. My child was a B+ student in fifth grade. He is still struggling. He loves desert. The school is great, but he's like, why couldn't I finish out my year? This is just terrible. This is that bluff. Community has seen so much change. The other thing I want to say, you know, school districts across New Hampshire and Vermont are struggling.
NEXT> Molly DeLuca: Do you see that Kearsarge right now is looking to restructure their elementary schools, like Sutton in New London. They're having major issues. Vermont is having major issues. Why don't

[17046-236] Leslie Peabody | Public commenter, Ward 1; parent, taxpayer and science teacher at Stev | 2025-12-17
PREV> Leslie Peabody: that in itself should be a major concern to you. I've come from organizations before. It's it's bad. So the board needs a clear multiyear plan for students and staff placement and, frankly, morale that prevents further resignations and protects our special education services infrastructure.
TEXT> Consolidating more students into fewer buildings significantly impacts local traffic and parking, blah, blah. We talked about that. We require an engineering and logistics report on how these sites will handle increased volume without compromising safety. With seventh and eighth at Stevens. How are we going to prevent co-mingling? You can't do it right now. The way it's structured use can. I'm a parent of a nine year old fourth grader who has been part of the abrupt shutdown at bluff. The only reason it was somewhat smooth for us was because of Miss Lewis and her team, and the amazing bluff people that went with them. Yeah, she is a puppet. She's in the population of students that Tammy was just talking about, and that, like, breaks my heart. So if my child was in sixth grade right now, I would be highly concerned that she. They've got to start at Stevens next year with no plan in place. And I really hope that you are not going to tell Mr. Michael Harrington to figure it out in a few months, because that's not fair to him, and it's not fair to the students and it's not fair to the staff.
NEXT> Leslie Peabody: Okay. We need time. So, I'm going to skip this. Local taxpayers cannot continue bearing the burden of past financial mismanagement. Okay, so before more permanent changes are made, we

[17046-237] Leslie Peabody | Public commenter, Ward 1; parent, taxpayer and science teacher at Stev | 2025-12-17
PREV> Leslie Peabody: plan in place. And I really hope that you are not going to tell Mr. Michael Harrington to figure it out in a few months, because that's not fair to him, and it's not fair to the students and it's not fair to the staff.
TEXT> Okay. We need time. So, I'm going to skip this. Local taxpayers cannot continue bearing the burden of past financial mismanagement. Okay, so before more permanent changes are made, we require a plan with projected budget numbers to ensure these mismanagement issues do not reoccur. And we deserve a restructuring process built on more factual data in a long term sustainability plan, not emergency reactions to a temporary financial crisis. How much time do I have? Okay, I'm going to keep talking. Let's let's not forget about the high school student academics. What about the ratios at the high school? Okay, so 28 students in a math class without a para is not going to raise your state test scores, okay? It's just not. And Stevens is significantly lacking. Support staff and our students are suffering for it. And we we kind of don't talk about them. We talk about elementary. I love that we need to. But let's not forget about Stevens. Thank you. Thank you.
NEXT> Shayla Duran: Shayla, is this looking for some quick clarification about the projected budgets? Do those numbers include the one time cost for the rearranging for those models, or is that is

[17046-242] Cassandra Edwards | Public commenter, Ward 3; second-grade teacher at Disnard School and S | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Sandra Edwards, second grade teacher at Disney. I'm the building rep for my building for the Syria. I am a parent. I am a taxpayer. I have been decidedly neutral on restructuring every time it has been brought up. I understand the pros and cons of each model. This year  has been chaos. It has been chaos for our staff, for our students, for our administrators. You cannot. Teachers are right now at the end of their rope. Ask yourself why they are still here. They are here because they love their administrators.  They love their people they work with. They love their students, and they are comfortable in their building, moving them to a. Moving them to a new building. You are not just moving a classroom, you are creating new schools. If I am told I am starting over at a new school next year. Why would I not choose to start over in a district that is more stable and will pay me more? Your main premise of rearranging grade levels is that we will have extra staff for interventionist. That is false. You will not have enough staff to run your classrooms that I can just about guarantee, given who I have talked to in my building.
NEXT> Abby: Eric. Abby Ward three. So a lot of this has been covered and I, I'm really thankful that you guys asked such great questions to think about, because doesn't feel

[17046-243] Abby | Public commenter, Ward 3; parent of a special education student (name  | 2025-12-17
PREV> Cassandra Edwards: more? Your main premise of rearranging grade levels is that we will have extra staff for interventionist. That is false. You will not have enough staff to run your classrooms that I can just about guarantee, given who I have talked to in my building.
TEXT> Eric. Abby Ward three. So a lot of this has been covered and I, I'm really thankful that you guys asked such great questions to think about, because doesn't feel like what happened with bluff. You didn't want it to be on emotions. You wanted to be on financials. None of this financially makes sense right now to do. I agree with that statement. We have fundraised for athletics. Is that coming back into the budget? Is that going to be busses will happen again because we're still transporting our kids. We're still supplying stuff for classrooms, and then you're going to hit us with an increase if this goes through on our taxes. That's kind of like a thank you. Let me slap you in the face as you turn around. More importantly, with what Michelle Springer was saying, I so appreciate that because if you are even considering segregating special education, you guys, not you specifically, but as a whole, this district is so lucky. It doesn't have more lawsuits. My child from third grade and I just met with Mr. Harrington. She is 15. She is 10th grader at the high school and she is in everything.
NEXT> Abby: I wrote a letter complaining at Maple Ave when she was in fifth grade. Her whole class was excluded from the end of year graduation projects. The whole special education

[17046-246] Sam Torres | Public commenter, Ward 1 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Sam Torres: by the fact that we're only focusing on the projections of decline for our community as a whole. What are we saying for the city of Claremont when we're like, oh, look at these, this data, you can change data by what choices you make.
TEXT> Now you can change the trajectory. Like we are shuttering up and locking the door on any new families wanting to come here. It's already a joke. People don't want to move here right now.  But if our main goal is to consolidate and move more or to have less than, we're just making it so more people are not going to want to come here and we're all going to age out. We're going to need young people to be in our community, and no new families are coming here, and it's going to impact the vibrancy of our city as a whole. If we're only focusing on how crappy things are going to be. So I think we need to have a little bit of hope. Practicality is huge. Absolutely. But why are we only focusing on how much worse it's going to get? We're kind of creating that, and killing our community.  I was going to point out someone already did. These are also kids that have experienced Covid, the back and forth with remote learning and being shut down like they've had a lot of disruption even before all of this. And kids are not going to retain anything.
NEXT> Sam Torres: Your scores are not going to go up and maybe they will in ten years, like those kids will be lucky. Once things are settled, things could go up. But

[17046-247] Sam Torres | Public commenter, Ward 1 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Sam Torres: to point out someone already did. These are also kids that have experienced Covid, the back and forth with remote learning and being shut down like they've had a lot of disruption even before all of this. And kids are not going to retain anything.
TEXT> Your scores are not going to go up and maybe they will in ten years, like those kids will be lucky. Once things are settled, things could go up. But right now, all you're doing is screwing over the kids that are in school now. And I don't pay $8,000 a year in taxes for my son and my daughter to be collateral damage like they are not guinea pigs. This many transitions is unacceptable. So please give us time to make an actual plan. Thanks.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[17046-250] Michelle Bian | Public commenter, Ward 2 (name as announced; chair says 'Miss Beam' —  | 2025-12-17
PREV> Michelle Bian: either of these models and looking to see where's the data currently on the number of staff who have resigned since we have made this model of moving closing bluff, and how many new hires have we had into the district since the bluff closure?
TEXT> Not moving within, but outside the district? How many are we hiring that are new? So I'm thinking that maybe we need to look at that data to determine whether or not we can handle another move, or if we need to look at stability for next year and keeping the staff that we have. Because although there is no intentional reduction, we may need to consider what the actual, data that we have after our current closure of bluff. Just to be clear, our two secretaries funded for each school in both of the models next year. Probably can't answer the question, but I think it's something that we  need to consider as when I walk into Maple, I see Kim, who's amazing, and she's running an answering the door and she's answering the phone and copying papers. And so I'm just looking to see clarification on that. I think we need to consider if we are moving children that we just moved K through three from Bluff to Maple. And so now in this next proposal, we're proposing that we move them from bluff then to Maple and now to Disney. So that's three moves for those children. I also want to seek some clarification under a statement that I heard that there's funding for full science and social studies for seventh and eighth grade.
NEXT> Michelle Bian: I'm looking to hear about sixth grade. They are also at the middle school, and they only have a half a year science and social studies. So where is that

[17046-261] Mimi Rhines | Public commenter, Ward 1; Stevens High School staff (ASR 'Mimi Ryan's' | 2025-12-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: I didn't say, I said there is no money for, repairs. Okay. So there. Will. Be many renovations.
TEXT> So if we end with the second model, which I don't think we should for a lot of reasons, but if we do that and we move third graders to CMS next year, we will be renovating the building for those kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Fourth graders would.

[17046-276] Mimi Rhines | Public commenter, Ward 1; Stevens High School staff (ASR 'Mimi Ryan's' | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Three through six.
TEXT> So back to my original question slash concern. If we're moving third graders, the current second graders to the middle school next year, there is going to be money in the budget to renovate that building because like Guinea to, like, fix things and like alter sizes of things in that building before you can put those kids in that building is. So I just want to make sure that's addressed somehow. If the second plan is the one that's chosen. And also the playground issue, I think is also something to look at. And a different note, I really I know you guys all have jobs and lives and I get that, but I really hope you guys are going to school activities in the buildings and talking to families, talking to staff, not just principals. No offense, but I really hope you guys are taking that time to go to events in the schools and walking around the school through the day. Come take a tour, check in at the office with our lovely secretaries. We've been talking about walk around. Yeah, and I really hope you guys are doing that. Or if not, you will do that because I think you guys need to get a full picture of the schools K-12 and what it is like right now in the buildings.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: I really think it's important for you guys to do, and I think that would maybe help with the trust issues have been hearing about tonight, if that makes sense.

[17046-287] Tyler | Public commenter; Claremont district substitute teacher and 2020 Steve | 2025-12-17
PREV> Matt Angell: Okay, I.
TEXT> I'm Tyler, I'm a district sub with you guys. I'm probably one of the only subs, and I don't sub a lot. But I'm planning to apply for this district and teach in position next year with the dough and stuff. But I don't have a valid reason to even come back to this district that I care for a lot. I'm a 2020 graduate and I'm a district sub, and I don't feel like Miss Hawkins question was adequately answered by Mr. Angel when it came to the questions that she had brought about keeping the kids in schools. We have said this before. You're making elementary kids transition 3 or 4 times within the elementary school before they even reach the middle school level. That's not okay. And you closed bluff to claim savings  you've emitted that there wasn't as many savings as you want, and now you want to utilize it in a different capacity. You close the school either cheaper, closed, or open it back up to the way it was. Don't keep it closed. Open it back to the way it was.
NEXT> Tyler: If it doesn't save us actual money. You mentioned no staff reductions to either one of those plans. And the second plan, you would lose a principal because of the

[17046-293] Rebecca | Public commenter, Ward 1; CMS sixth-grade science/social studies teach | 2025-12-17
PREV> Rebecca: thrive and do really, really well. And I know in our own ways we are. We are all some every day. But I would not want to be Sean Herzog, who is out there doing amazing work as a title one interventionist at Maple Avenue.
TEXT> You know, we all get our training, and it just I would just encourage you to think about the ways that you are talking about your teachers and really consider how much you have affected the way that we have taught. We have math teachers that in the last five years have had three different curriculums and have had to go through different trainings, sometimes getting trained on one in the summer and then getting changed when they start the school year. That's not okay. And even for the best teacher in the world, that doesn't make sense. It doesn't make for consistency for students. So I would take a look at some of those factors where you have some control over that. And again, those are the things that let's let it settle out. Let's see how the district does with some stability. So thank you very much. I appreciate you letting me have some extra time.  I appreciate all the work that you're doing, but I just I know that student achievement is the goal, but you get there  through treating us well and having stable. We care  so much about these kids. We care so much  we are advocating for them. So please don't discount that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much.

[17046-295] Matt Bean | Public commenter, Ward 1; special education teacher | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much.
TEXT> It's going to be real quick. Matt. Being Ward one, as a special education teacher, I would just like to implore and please to I would love to see the the proposal even thought about of putting all the special needs self-contained programs in one school to please remove that from our brain and not even consider it. Because, because, because it is not. Yeah, that and it is not conducive to our children. It removes them from their peers in our mission is to inspire and engage. And what else does it say?
NEXT> Unidentified speaker: Wow.

[17046-298] Amanda Barton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (sub-second onset clipped from the next segme | 2025-12-17
PREV> Matt Bean: Empower every student. And that's not doing that. That is segregating. That is something we did in the 1950s to kids to to children with disabilities. We warehouse them. That's what that leads to. So please don't do that. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi. Amanda Barton, Ward two, parent and teacher. So a very dedicated person for education here. I just want to say ditto to a lot of things that have been said today. So I don't have to repeat them. But I want to thank the board for bringing up the current plan and thinking about maybe waiting on the restructuring for the sake of our teachers. But our students, so many people would really benefit from us pumping the brakes just this one year and having those well thought out plans. I'm very concerned about the educational leadership on the board right now. I mean, all of your hard work, don't get me wrong. And Mr. Angel is a businessman and he's doing a great job, and I appreciate that. But make sure we are talking to those building principals. They know how our teachers are feeling, how our students are feeling. They also know how our intervention is going. And from what I'm hearing, I mean, we had the shout out to Mrs. Miss Herzog. She is amazing. And she says things are going well and she's working hard and those kids are improving.
NEXT> Amanda Barton: So if we could get some data to make sure that it's okay to leave it K through five, because intervention is happening and kids are starting to get into

[17046-333] Alicia Simoneau | Public commenter; first-grade teacher at Maple Avenue School (segment  | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Alicia.
TEXT> Introduce yourself. Oh, I'm sorry, Alicia Seminole. I don't live here. I'm a teacher at Maple. Used to be a bluff teacher, so. I. Don't like pajama day. I might be the only elementary teacher in the world who doesn't like pajama day, so I don't even have pajamas that I would wear to school for pajama day. I just wore slippers.  And I have a wonderful little baby in my class. I consider my students my little babies because they're only six and seven years old, and all of my kids came with pajamas on and one did not. And I didn't have pajamas on either. And I said, hey, what are you doing? How come you you know what's up? She goes, I only wear pajamas to two places.  Place number one is my house. Place number two is Bluff School, and I don't go to school there anymore. And I said, well, guess what, we're at Maple now. It's great here. Mr. blunt and his entire staff have been wonderful. We're we're we're starting to get used to it. I'm an adult. I'm an old lady. I'm used to it. My little babies still are not. Some of them are. I don't bring it up. I don't discuss it with them. Somebody wanted to give me a bluff sign the other day, I refused it.
NEXT> Alicia Simoneau: I will not put it up at my new school because I respect the decision that was made. I am working my tail off. I have worked so hard with

[17046-367] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Kennedy, I think it's probably important that we do clarify what the alternative program, the conceptual model looks like and what you're actually speaking to. We will definitely part by that on some level right now. Sure.
TEXT> So right now. So there's the. Potential looking. At the. Programs that do exist right. Now. And whether that would work at all or not. And I'm not saying it would. And then also in the future, as we look at out of district placements and creating an alternative out of district placement in, in house. And so it's an in-house out of district placement. So instead of sending our students in Massachusetts or Vermont, we create our own model.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And then we make sure our students have first serve and needs to it, but then also would open it up to other communities that they would pay tuition into

[17046-368] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: the future, as we look at out of district placements and creating an alternative out of district placement in, in house. And so it's an in-house out of district placement. So instead of sending our students in Massachusetts or Vermont, we create our own model.
TEXT> And then we make sure our students have first serve and needs to it, but then also would open it up to other communities that they would pay tuition into that school model, too. So so if I could summarize, just so correct me if I'm wrong, the proposal from the administration is that if we were to re open bluff to accommodate students, it would be the alternative program that exists at the tech right now. Right, which is out of compliance. Right? Right. Now, we know as far as facilities wise and the camp program at CMS, which is self-contained program currently, and to become a tuition in program for external districts and to bring back our own kids, as many as we can, that we are currently paying tuition for out of district placement. This is still so it's not to upend or change the in school model that are serving our special education students or special needs students right now.
NEXT> Karen Gherardi: And this would be. For the right people to run that program to give to the taxpayers and the community.

[17046-419] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: fiscal year 2627 to the Claremont School District Elementary School at 15,000. And for CMS or our middle school offerings at 155. Say I any opposed? No. Abstentions. A motion passes. Okay. Next, we're doing acceptance of retirees, Miss Kennedy. Okay. It is with regret.
TEXT> But also for years of service. So I have five staff members, teachers who are have put in the resignation. Excuse me, the retirement for the end of this school year. So the following members are doing Emery Davidson. We appreciate her service. So she's been in the district since 2000 is a title one teacher right now. And she's at Disney. And so she would be retiring at the end of the year. Karen Difford, who is been in our district since 2001 at Claremont Middle School, and she would be retiring. She's our sixth and seventh grade Ela teacher. She would be retiring at the end of the year. Denise Flanders, who's been in the district since 2003. She's a title one teacher at Disney, also be retiring at the end of the year. Kelly Fontaine Since 1990. She's a special education teacher at the high school. Would also be retiring. And then Jane Quelch. Since 1984, she's been in Claremont Middle School, teacher and special education teacher. So I first would like to appreciate and applaud all of those faculty members who've been with us for many, many years. And if I could just ask you to give them a round of applause for all of their hard work. They have dedicated their careers to our students, and I appreciate their education works. And so I ask that you accept the resignation letter. Excuse me. The retirement letters at the end of the year. Okay.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But anyone like to.

[17046-445] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR 'Doctor Harrington') | 2025-12-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I was.
TEXT> Just asking. My chemistry teacher can't go anywhere. I need the kids to learn chemistry.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you.

[17046-464] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2025-12-17
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: a policy. Frank and I worked on it. We put something together. Then it was expanded to include all the other class rankings and valedictorian salutary. And and then Arlene wanted to be very careful that we didn't impose something that couldn't be lived with.
TEXT> So I  had me work with Doctor Harrington. We got together. We came to complete agreement a couple weeks later. He said, Billy can't do it this way. So what can you do? We went back, we massaged it, and now we have this. And I'm hoping that the kids are going to compete with each other. Good spirit and friendly competition. I want to change the culture. I want the kid to. Who's number one? And walking down the hall to have the ninth graders go. That's the guy. He's number one in the school, and I want that to fester and hopefully lift everybody up. That's how it was when I was in high school.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So the recommendation, if.

[17046-561] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: I do have a couple of quick ones. Scott Maple going to be driving the homeless kids.
TEXT> So right now that does not seem to be able to be done. And we are looking at that because we are actually the superintendent groups that I talked about that yesterday. So good news. We're cheaper than some of the other ones. It doesn't help it because it's still ridiculously expensive, I will totally admit. And the group that's, providing the service right now is not on our list. So we are going back to the table for the bid list to see what we can do. For this particular students, unfortunately, the timing of that is not exactly ideal either, because the time we need him to be able to make sure students are coming into school is the exact same time that the students need to be picked up and brought to school. So we're trying to come up with the an option with that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: With wasn't a baked into his salary though. Was that I said wasn't that that baked into his salary. The fact that he would be doing that.

[17092-21] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Eric Link: It's my.
TEXT> Pleasure filling this huge vacancy in our  in our school for the kids. I can't tell you how much we appreciate it as a board. And I know this. The students and the administration and the community appreciate it as well. Thank you.
NEXT> Eric Link: It's my pleasure. And it's definitely not a one man show for me. Melissa Richmond, our executive director, put on a ton of work for arranging finances. I'll be taking

[17092-67] Sherry Williams | Citizen commenter, Chestnut Street (self-identified) | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: not happening again to just the Reader's Digest version. I think to summarize it is that the stipends that we're concerned were written outside of the collective bargaining agreement. Correct. And that's what normally restrains the stipends as adhering to the collective bargaining agreement team.
TEXT> Again, my name is Sherry Williams. So sorry, Chestnut Street.  I was not at the December 17th board meeting, and so I didn't get a chance to say this, but the meeting prior, there was a lot of discussion  related, I believe, to the budget, but having to do with summer school.  And I just wanted to come up again. Mr. Madden, I absolutely love your point of view when what you bring to the board.  I am in a very involved parent in my children's lives and do the best that I can in helping them with school,  the summer school program, or the r e related to r e has been something that has been incredibly beneficial to my children, and I am a huge supporter of the opportunities that come with summer school. And so I'm not sure where related to the budget, where the detail of summer school may or may not still be a part of the discussion, but I wanted the opportunity to come up to the school board and ask you not to discount the benefit  that if a student is is facing an Re with a need  like summer school  or being a credit recovery,  it doesn't indicate uninvolved parents.
NEXT> Sherry Williams: It doesn't indicate students who aren't doing their best. It is a huge benefit to a lot of students and has been a huge benefit to our family and my

[17092-126] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: make an impact? Excuse me? An academic impact. And so Matt and answer the three school nine model has ten interventionists above what we already have for title one. The for school, a line model. Again, that would be the one schools K to two.
TEXT> When the school is 3 to 5, that would be have six interventionists above what we get for title one right now the four school current configuration that we have now there's zero other interventionists besides what we have through title one grant funding. But really, to make the significant impact, any interventionist model needs to be included with targeted professional development. We would work on that and then a robust mentoring model, so we would hopefully get back to that as well. Are the classes in the current underlined model equitable. So in the high end no. Yeah. Low numbers. And so right now in terms of numbers numerically, no, the bluff classes were moved intact and some of them have smaller class sizes  than their Maple or Disney counterparts. And so example, there's a class that came over from bluff that had ten students at the kindergarten or elementary level. And so that's not the same number of the students that were in the positions in those schools before the move happened. And so we left that purposely so that there was fewer disruptions to the students and the staff.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: But the plan would be in the future that they would be, you know, just again, regulated into the, you know, numbers of students that we have. We all recognize

[17092-127] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: the kindergarten or elementary level. And so that's not the same number of the students that were in the positions in those schools before the move happened. And so we left that purposely so that there was fewer disruptions to the students and the staff.
TEXT> But the plan would be in the future that they would be, you know, just again, regulated into the, you know, numbers of students that we have. We all recognize and I appreciate the work the administrators and all the teachers have done is that all of the students from bluff assimilated into their schools, their in their new schools. And we recognize that there, you know, there's not that distinguish there is a little bit of a class one part, but we want to make sure that every understands that they're the bluff students or everybody's students. So where regardless of where it's, you know, settles into which school. So they are all our students. There is also about question about attrition for staff members and for the three years, what is our attrition rate for teachers in the service span. And so we're looking at categories of teachers who've been here from 0 to 5 years. Teachers have been here from 6 to 15 years, and those that have been here for 15 plus years. So in 2023. I'll go back a little bit. There were 19 teachers who left in the 0 to 5 year category. There were five teachers that left in the 6 to 15 years, excuse me, and seven teachers left and that were here greater than 15 years, or a total of 31 in the 2023 year.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: In the 2024 year, we had 18 staff who left in the 0 to 5 year level of experience. Five members who left in the 6 to 15 years of

[17092-159] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Matt Angell: Yes.
TEXT> Is there any clarifying questions or any more?  One more. Earlier, Miss Kennedy, you said that the the students who came over from bluff are in smaller classes because they remained with their teacher? My my question is, and I think I know the answer that will end as of June 30th, because all of the students will either be  Dennard or Maple.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: In any of the model.

[17092-193] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Matt Angell: The crystal ball is foggy. Just so you know, I.
TEXT> I have to say, I. I sweat this every day.  I want to make sure that we end the year with money. That's. And I want to be able to, to make sure  that we can keep the schools open through the end of the year, that those kids can graduate, that we have a school opened and there are six months yet to go that we could have a number of things go wrong. And so while that's a wonderful, anticipated  outcome,  it's still a crapshoot. It is.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Thank you. But I'm going to try to protect it as best I can.

[17092-221] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Matt Angell: People because, that was actually a mistake that we had done in our last school district and we had to put our foot down. And that's when our our test scores took off.
TEXT> And the question of ten versus six. According to the strategic plan, the focus on student achievement is in the primary grades. So if you have if you have six  and if you have ten, why would you spread them up the grade levels rather than create even more concentrated intervention if possibilities for the younger students.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Okay, so when I built the model, I was primarily focused on, on elementary.

[17092-229] Camron Lownie | Citizen commenter, Ward 2; Disnard School teacher (self-identified; AS | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: for a total of six minutes per person. And then once we have closed our public comment, like I said before, we will open it up to the board to ask for clarifying questions. And is there anybody would like to come up and speak?
TEXT> Good evening, Cameron Louny, Ward two teacher at Designer Taxpayer, all that stuff. Three quick hits. Quick hit number one. Just for the public clarity. I want to be really clear that, like data meetings and small group interventions are like definitely currently happening. The opportunity to have more intervention. That's wonderful. But just wanted to be like super clear that that's a day to day thing. Thing number two, as we talk about a goal being improving student outcomes, I think a lot of people have laptops out in front of them. If you do a quick Google for like peer reviewed articles about school consolidation effects on test scores, I think of those articles very consistently paint a very different direction of a picture than the results that we're hoping for here. Not universal, but there's a lot of literature out there on it, and it tells a very clear and different story, especially in short term effects. It's it's tough. And finally, the question with the caveat that the transparency that's being displayed is really appreciated. You're getting into nuts and bolts with the public. And that's really nice when we're looking at the pleasantly already there slide for school line current for school.
NEXT> Camron Lownie: We know for school line we get some interventionists. That's awesome. And it costs way less. That's awesome. And I feel like there's a missing variable about how exact a

[17092-244] Sandra Edwards | Citizen commenter, Ward 3; parent and teacher (as announced; not on pu | 2026-01-07
PREV> Sandra Edwards: teacher, a title, one teacher and me in the same room. It is difficult, so I'm not sure that we're going to realize a lot of gains with that. Thirdly, as a mom and as a teacher, I'm trying to keep my emotions in check.
TEXT> Right now, it feels like you are up here saying, oh, but it's going to be okay because we're doing this in this and this. It's not going to be okay for these kids. You cannot look at the fourth grade classroom that got shoved out of bluff. That's now maybe going to have to go to April next year and tell me that they're going to be fine. It's not a big deal for them. It really is. It's a big deal for my kid who has been at this nerd his whole life, and now he doesn't get to see mom at school anymore. He's over here saying, mom, you can't make me go to Maple. You can't. These are these are kids. You are talking about a generation of children that is being pushed to the side. Because in ten years, we're going to be, you know, down some a couple hundred kids. These kids don't matter. The effects on their education doesn't matter, because we have a projection that says we need to shut down schools and consolidate. We are asking you for another year.
NEXT> Sandra Edwards: We are asking for stability so that we can plan and feel safe and controlled. We prep our students for every transition within a school day so that they can

[17092-245] Sandra Edwards | Citizen commenter, Ward 3; parent and teacher (as announced; not on pu | 2026-01-07
PREV> Sandra Edwards: we're going to be, you know, down some a couple hundred kids. These kids don't matter. The effects on their education doesn't matter, because we have a projection that says we need to shut down schools and consolidate. We are asking you for another year.
TEXT> We are asking for stability so that we can plan and feel safe and controlled. We prep our students for every transition within a school day so that they can do it successfully. But we're just going to reconfigure the whole district in the next six months. You can't plan a wedding in six months, but we're going to do it with the district. Who's doing that work? Our administrator. That has a whole nother job. Our building administrators that have more than full time jobs. You're going to pull them out to do this planning instead. It guys, it really sucks.  And I know it's hard to tell the taxpayers, listen, this is what's happening. I'm a taxpayer too. I see the comments on Facebook. It's about the money. Thank you. Okay.
NEXT> Lisa Holtz: Lisa Holtz, word to, see you. Elementary educator. I've got a shorter letter than I sent yesterday. Please be open to other ideas, strategies, and steps in order to best

[17092-246] Lisa Holtz | Citizen commenter, Ward 2; elementary educator (as announced; not on p | 2026-01-07
PREV> Sandra Edwards: to pull them out to do this planning instead. It guys, it really sucks. And I know it's hard to tell the taxpayers, listen, this is what's happening. I'm a taxpayer too. I see the comments on Facebook. It's about the money. Thank you. Okay.
TEXT> Lisa Holtz, word to,  see you. Elementary educator. I've got a shorter letter than I sent yesterday. Please be open to other ideas, strategies, and steps in order to best serve our elementary school students who are in the midst of foundational education. Please consider whether the 3 or 4 school model is reacting, rather than what is the in the best interest of our youngest students. For example, at the beginning of the year, several reactionary decisions were made. We had to box up all of our students workbooks. It took us days. Then we we got them back because it was too much, too much to make copies of them. But if you'd ask any educator, any elementary educator, we would have told you that,  that copying and copy paper and toner is to is is precious. Elementary educators and our building principals understand, know and love our students. Take this opportunity with Mr. Angel to make plans for the district for the future, in case we have a steep decline in our student population. But in the meantime, we need to work with the kids we have now. Our kids are making gains with the quality programs we now have.
NEXT> Lisa Holtz: But look at the big picture, not just the high stake test. Part of that big picture is far too many of our children are trying to learn while dealing

[17092-247] Lisa Holtz | Citizen commenter, Ward 2; elementary educator (as announced; not on p | 2026-01-07
PREV> Lisa Holtz: make plans for the district for the future, in case we have a steep decline in our student population. But in the meantime, we need to work with the kids we have now. Our kids are making gains with the quality programs we now have.
TEXT> But look at the big picture, not just the high stake test. Part of that big picture is far too many of our children are trying to learn while dealing with the effects of real trauma, and we can't share them. We can't share their stories. We can't do that because we're bound by confidentiality. Let me be clear. These kids are struggling with real trauma. And all  of the kids, all of the kids in our classrooms are affected by it. This is real stuff. If you I will have a conversation with you and I will change names and different things. But this stuff is real. Just today in my classroom. Another important consideration is the elementary school staff you have now. We're used to changes. We're ultra flexible. I invite each one of you to have a conversation with me about the flexibility I have to have as a current elementary educator. We're not opposed to moving schools because we're stuck in our ways or we're unwilling to work or we're obstinate. The reality is that we're looking out for our kids. We really are. We really are. And some of our colleagues are just tired. We're tired of not being heard as the experts in elementary education. We are the experts. Would you please listen to us?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to come and speak on any of the models?

[17092-253] Jenna Gage | Citizen commenter, Ward 3; second-grade teacher, Maple Avenue School ( | 2026-01-07
PREV> Jenna Gage: you assumed our schools would function without. All this is still happening right now, and by making another drastic change, these gaps, these positions and these problems are only going to get bigger as staff continue to leave for work places that truly value them.
TEXT> With all that being said, the students and staff are finally starting to settle with the previous closure in combination. Everyone has done their best to make this year seem as normal as we can. For the students who have been forced to be uprooted in the middle of their year.  Now all of that hard work may be undone. More teachers and students will be uprooted, more families and resources stripped from our community. And I can honestly say that although I love my job, I am one of many who have never considered leaving more than we have after hearing these new proposals. The desire to leave for a more stable district where we're not treated as a mere number or scapegoats for the district's mistakes, has never been stronger. As a dedicated teacher who still loves her profession, I respectfully, respectfully urge you to take the time  to develop a plan that truly meets the needs of families, students, teachers and staff. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael Myers: Michael Myers, Ward three, taxpayer, business owner I can tell you from what I've heard from people that I communicate with locally, that a 7% increase, for the current configuration

[17092-259] Jim Zullo | Citizen commenter, Ward 3 (as announced; not on public roster) | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: Would you fill in the blanks?
TEXT> Jim Zullo, Ward three.  Mr. Angel, I was wondering. You said that there's a chance that we could finish out the year at a  zero level with where we're at currently providing we don't have a roof fall in or a roof leak or something like that happens. If we can go from five, whatever million dollars in the hole under the current budget  to  even, I think somebody needs to sharpen their pencil and start making some more cuts. I mean, unfortunately unpopular opinion. We do need athletics for these kids. They did a heck of a job fundraising. Maybe they need to fundraise again next year. The taxpayers don't need an increase.  And it's a little disheartening that you people sitting on this side, nobody's questioned what else could be cut for the taxpayers. After everything you guys went through in the auditorium that night? Where? The city. The taxpayers wanted to lynch you all. I think you all should be asking questions to this gentleman. What else can we cut? How much more can we cut? Make it a little bit easier for the taxpayers to swallow. As far as you know, the teachers not liking and the students not liking combinations. I can't say to that. They they. Unfortunately, sometimes tough things have to happen.  Sometimes it's just it's not fair for everybody. But right now, the taxpayers deserve it to be a little more fair for them. Thank you.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Thank you. Okay.

[17092-276] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Unidentified: Playground.
TEXT> Okay.  And it only really applies to the littles. Okay. We don't. Have, And they wouldn't be in. That building. They would still remain in a building that that can manage those kids.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: So some of my other concern is, is what we've already said. We don't we we're constantly told it's a nationwide problem. We can't get teachers. We can't get special

[17092-304] Brian Rapp | Citizen commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified; ASR 'Hey, Brian / Rapport  | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: One. Two. Three. Four. One. Two. Three. Four. Motion passes. Thank you.
TEXT> Hey, Brian. Rapport two. Can't say I'm happy to be back. It's a pretty. Miserable discussion. I would say that this. District needs some stability. You're decimating. The district right now. The teachers can't take it. The kids can't take it. We need a couple of years of stability. It's called triage. We need to stabilize the district. If not, we're going to lose teachers. We're going to lose our good quality educators. And then we're got to decide if we're going to be happy with trying to get new teachers in that haven't really taught before. It's going to affect the quality of our education here. Now. I've looked at some of the numbers for the potential population decline. I don't think people are really understanding the growth that's happening in Claremont. We've got a lot of housing units that have been going in past couple of years. We've got a couple hundred. We've got we've got more in the works. We've got old buildings that haven't been used that are coming onto the rolls. So there are more people moving here. So I don't think you're taking that into consideration. The other part is we've got kids that have left because of what happened  six months ago.  Where are we anticipating they're never going to come back? That's what the numbers are looking like. So what if they come back? All of a sudden, your model is screwed.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So you need to give it time to stabilize and figure out where we're going to be at. Going to three schools. Ridiculous. Ridiculous. You really need to put on

[17092-326] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2026-01-07
PREV> Loren Howard: of stability in a much, much more thought out plan. I proposed previously loose ideas around kindergarten, leaving one elementary school, you know, next year, and then each successive year, we'd take a grade out of that school so a student wouldn't actually be leaving.
TEXT> Like, no students would leave the school. They wouldn't be a kindergarten one year, and anyone entering kindergarten would go to Disney. And we, you know, reconfigure in a way that was methodical. People could plan for. So it's not just about the, you know, how little it is saving some money. It's a tax increase, period. But I think when we talk about it, we're a bit fanatic about what that actually looks like. And if you want a $250,000 house, $50 a month doesn't sound that bad. To keep the community stable and make sure there's educated citizens in your community that can get jobs and hopefully buy more houses and have a future beer. And then just anecdotally, I have a friend my age who's got a child who's the age of my child, roughly two,  and he moved to Claremont. Regardless of all this, he just bought a house on Maple. So  even with our doubts, you know, about the first grade, etc. worries about under population. Now, even though ten years ago it was overpopulation we were worried about. I think, you know, those are bigger picture things. And right now we do need stability. And that that price tag does not seem significant enough to warrant, you know, all of our teachers hemorrhaging.
NEXT> Unidentified: You're not 80. Years old. Living on a fixed income neither.

[17092-358] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: fantastic career. I'm very financially stable. But when I was a mom that moved into Claremont and I was working 50, 55, 60 hours a week, no child support, had a mortgage, and I got my tax bill and I had allocated out my budget.
TEXT> That tax bill prevented me from getting snow tires. I had to make a critical choice, and I ended up skating around for a year with my kids in the back of my car. And so I think we have to be really careful when we talk about taxes, and we can't forget that taxes are levied on people, on families, on households,  and those taxes have consequences. And I'm not able to quantify what those consequences are, but I can't make the assumption that the suffering that I am, or the inconvenience or uncomfortableness or the trauma to the children in that household who may not be able to, I don't know, get Christmas presents, may not be able to go to dance class, their families might get completely stressed out, and that negatively impacts their home environment. I don't think that I can judge or  put a number on  the suffering of a teacher or a kid in school versus, you know, suffering that we could be imposing on a family and the children within that household. So I think it's really incumbent upon the board to be as careful with our dollars as we possibly can without negatively impacting our ability to provide the programs.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And it's important to that. We recognize that although we have eliminated positions in some of these configurations, we're not eliminating people. So every person that is employed by the

[17092-361] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2026-01-07
PREV> Unidentified: Just a quick response.
TEXT> The lowest aligned model still would be, I think, a little over 200. So it would be 20 ish, per month. So again, yeah, it's a $30 a month difference, I  hear you. And then, you know, to to the, man's point in the back about  fixed income. I hear that as well. The but the example I gave is a three family. The landlord is on a fixed income. He's got two renters.  And, so, so again, I'm not trying to be inconsiderate and, you know,  talk about snow tires. I got snow tires last month, and I had $4 in my bank account on the 31st. So so I totally get it. I just think we're when you talk about, like, the trauma of that family is that's 100% real, but is that as as much trauma as, you know, these kids are going to have to endure switching schools again, some maybe even losing town, etc., etc.. I'm not even sure either of those scenarios are really traumatic. If you don't get a good Christmas present because your mom have 30 extra dollars a month. I'm not even trying to be mean about it, but I just think getting down on that detail is that's  a I have a sympathetic reaction. But we're still increasing their taxes.
NEXT> Loren Howard: And so whether it's $20 a month or $50 a month, again, $30 a month can make a difference. And I hear you, but the 60% of families who have

[17092-373] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: for less money. It's, it's does makes no sense to do otherwise. And although we're not a business, we have to operate under the same principles that a nonprofit has to operate. And those seem to be business principles of efficiency and and cost management.
TEXT> I respond to that. Why what why are we doing this? Because the children have been moved. The adults have been moved. This would give a year of stability to me. That's the reason we would be doing this, which is a request we've heard loud and clear. Do I believe the board majority of the board supports it? Probably not at this point, but I feel it's important to take a look at it and be respectful. These are kids. The older kids have been through Covid and we've we've had to change them. And it was in the beginning of the year and we didn't know if we could. We have we are we will. But the reason we're doing it is to provide stability in what has been a very unstable district in leadership here. So that's my response.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Are we willing to. Would we like to oppose the discussion and move the question? Is there any more discussion. Just Mr. Sprague.

[17092-470] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Unidentified: Phrase over, I know.
TEXT> My my only concern and I do agree with the alignment pieces of this. I think that's absolutely critical. There's absolutely no way around us having improved achievement, improving achievement or managing our resources better without that alignment. And I also believe that it makes us a whole community school. One, I've been receiving emails hearing about what's happening really well, in particular schools like in this school, we do this great. Please don't mess this up for our kids. And in this school we do this great. Don't mess it up for our kids and  all I can and I although I celebrate those achievements, all I can think about is why aren't we doing it for all the kids?  And, it we have to have a whole community identity and not a fractured school identity. They're all. They're all our kids. They're not bluff kids. They're not maple kids. They're not Disney our kids. They're Claremont's kids. And alignment all the way through, just ensures that every child has access to anybody in the district and those in those age groups that has an expertise in something. It allows grade level teachers to be bouncing ideas off of each other.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I don't think unless you've been in a model where you are with all your peers, that you can appreciate the value of that. Just professionally, I know I function.

[17092-473] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: reason we're here is, is a half a million here and a quarter of a million there. And it just piled up over the years. So, so I do have an issue with the idea that we would deliberately, willingly and knowingly, waste money into.
TEXT> If I may, I believe, disagree. I believe, I do not believe that realigning elementary schools is willfully wasting money. I don't. I will agree that it maximizes opportunity for collaboration.  I believe that our focus is on our position as advocates for public education, for our students, for our families, for our teachers, but also maintaining a balance for all of us taxpayers in this room. In addition, we are not going to the taxpayers to fix the deficit problem. And to me, that's a major accomplishment this year and so wastefully wasting money because we're not going into one model versus another, I feel is not accurate. And I respectfully disagree with your position.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[17092-493] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: You need to have that second.
TEXT> Oh, yes. I'm sorry. Is there a second? Mr. Madden's seconds. Is that. I think it's the most sustainably sustainable, fiscally responsible model that meets all the academic and extracurricular needs  of all the other models. And like I mentioned before, it's the most concrete step that we can take to put the district on the road to complete stability. I've heard a lot about transitions, and I appreciate the concerns about transitions. And I think that, probably the public thinks that I don't care about transitions or I don't understand them, and I and I do. I want to thank Miss Yates for responding to my email. And I wanted to steal man my position. I she presented very professionally at one of the meetings about the issues with transitions and my own children. I had seven transitions for my kids when they were going through school. One three years in a. Row. All going from different school districts, different teachers, different peers, moved to a different state, moving into a huge urban school, moving back different peers, different teachers, different curriculum. Two other structured transitions were intercepted transition. And the final transition for my youngest daughter was to a private school where she found out even if she was on the top ten in Claremont, she was two years behind.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So for me, that transition was well worth the transition. And I think that we have to be very nuanced when we look at the school configuration reconfiguration and transitions.

[17092-494] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: different peers, different teachers, different curriculum. Two other structured transitions were intercepted transition. And the final transition for my youngest daughter was to a private school where she found out even if she was on the top ten in Claremont, she was two years behind.
TEXT> So for me, that transition was well worth the transition. And I think that we have to be very nuanced when we look at the school configuration reconfiguration and transitions.  I read a lot because I didn't want to be uninformed and I didn't want to be flipped just because I felt that financially this was the right model to go with. The the data on transitions is truly nuanced. And, I think a lot of the, the data is related to unstructured transitions and multi school configurations from other districts. The disruption of small or neighborhood schools in urban environments that are being reconfigured into other environments are shut down. And so these kind of transitions we're not doing that here in Claremont. We are all of our kids are going to be with their peers. All of our kids are going to see the same teachers that they're going to see. And all of our kids are going to be using the same curriculum. This isn't a programmatic change.  The reconfiguration is, for all intents and purposes, a structural one and  a logistics one. There there's temporary disruption and then things will calm down. And I think recognizing that at some point in time we're going to be will be forced to. And I know there's some discrepancies about whether or not our population is going to increase. There has been just down, down, down, down, down,  down, down, down. It's nationwide.  It's not Claremont.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And even if we have economic growth here, to Mr. Angel's point, there's truly a birth rate issue and an affordability issue. People aren't having kids. And a lot of

[17092-498] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: it's it's it's worth it's worth a look and it's worth being considered and it's worth further exploration. And what I'm looking for is an opportunity from today until the public hearing is to do some rough modeling on what a program would look like.
TEXT> At the high school, I became so impassioned about this that I actually tracked down the architect who did the remodeling at the high school and got the plans so I could see where we could put the kids. And if you could actually fit all the kids into the high school, could we put them in a specific wing? And there really is a way of doing this to kind of create the school inside the school model, which is a and if we can truly create the school with inside the school model, that's what the Middle School Principals Association actually recommends as the best model for kids. And so if we're going to do something and why not do the biggest, best stuff that we can recognizing that, yep, it'll be a really crappy transition year, but we can really start moving along. And additionally, if we wait to do the reconfiguration model of any of the alignment models, that's one big lift. And then we're going to be doing nothing because we don't want to disrupt kids now. And then when we move kids, we don't want to do anything that year because they're going to be adjusting.  And meanwhile, we're not implementing the social studies because it's too much a social studies and science curriculum, because it's too much of a lift for the teachers to be doing those things.  And we put ourselves back 2 or 3 years.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I mean, this is my this is I know I'm tired, everybody's tired. But I think this is the best model. And it's it's 100% budget neutral. It increases and

[17092-581] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: as the new music teacher as Mr. Sprague described by a a not opposed ratification or nomination accepted I oh my gosh, I hope I wish they would stop filming this. I can't stop anymore. Yes. And we can move on to quickly other businesses.
TEXT> All right. New business. Just really quickly. Thank you. The to regarding the video permissions, just before the break, we had the technical advisory that came up for the Department of Ed restricting use of filming. The good news is our actual photo release covered filming, whereas most other districts did not. And it was already in there. And so that covers us. So what we were looking to do is just add a link to the technical advisory. So if families wanted more information, it would just be up there. We would really rerelease the  permissions and say basically something to the effect of, you know, you can read through this if you have information, if you want to redo your, your permissions for your students, you may. But right now we would say status quo. And so it really covers most of it was not in relation to photos. It was really about filming and specifics. There are specifics about the language of the filming of students to being aired. There is something and we're working on that with our ESL instructor. Grace is one little section is about the wider testing, which is a state testing for students who are speaking of a non-native speakers.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And there is a speaking section where they have to get permission from their families, obviously, to native language, saying that they allow them to be, they have to record

[17095-45] Don Lavalette | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified as 'Don ... Ward two'; surna | 2026-01-21
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Yes. Okay.
TEXT> So last night, bus driver pay  was discussed, and I was thinking after. The meeting, if they're full time and we all agree, they probably have the toughest job in the district. I mean, they face forward and the kids are behind them, which means they've got great management skills. Is there any thought or can we use those folks? For example, at the  middle school, in the lunchroom during the middle of the day? I mean, are already know how to manage a bus? It seems to me they can manage a table and a cafeteria. Just throwing that out there.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I see Miss Kennedy furiously taking notes. We've actually had those discussions. We are working with personnel.

[17095-91] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (as announced; introd | 2026-01-21
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: questions that folks have. So we have maybe, maybe. I don't know if you could describe the drop in services program for just a few seconds. I didn't really get a chance to talk to you specifically, but okay. Hi there. Christina Sanford, preschool coordinator.
TEXT> For the Claremont School District.  So, as you know, we don't have a preschool classroom or program this year, so we had to get really creative about how we're going to provide services to our. Currently, I have 36 students on my caseload who have an IEP, an individualized education  program. So we have to provide those children with their IEP services. So what we've done to try to be really efficient and to be really mindful of those students needs is we have Joplin services that happen in small group sessions at Disney Art Elementary School. So we have a classroom there. I provide the specially designed instruction myself. I'm the case manager as well as the coordinator, so I provide the specially designed instruction. We have speech ot, PT vision services,  that also provide their services when the kids are there during their drop in time.  As you can imagine, having that many students to have them each come in individually for all of the services provided in their IEP can be really challenging just scheduling wise. So we had to get creative about how we can get them in for a small amount of time.
NEXT> Christina Sanford: You know, we don't have a classroom teacher. We don't have any parent supporting that. It is myself and my amazing related services going way above and beyond what their

[17095-104] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Christina Sanford: state will dig us if we do not have IEPs in place by their third birthday. That has been a problem in the past. I have cleaned that up. I would say other referrals would be from parents. Family members can make a referral. Teachers.
TEXT> So how would teachers if they don't already have the kids in school?
NEXT> Christina Sanford: I would say daycare teachers, preschool teachers. So I get referrals from Head Start. Green mountain has given me a few this year. And then also doctors. Doctors come with

[17095-111] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (as announced; introd | 2026-01-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: When you say drop in services, say, when I hear the word drop in, it seems like kids just kind of drop in. It could they drop in or is it mostly scheduled services?
TEXT> I have to have everything scheduled to a tee.  You know, we we have to make sure that our related services are able to meet the needs that are on the IEP. So if a child is has an hour week of speech therapy, we need to make sure that we have that child to receive that services. So  we have to be really mindful of what kids we could group together. We have them coming for an hour and a half sessions twice a week for our small group. So we have them for a total of three hours for some of those kids. They're in services. For that. Full three hours.  You know, I have social goals sometimes so that can look like me playing on the floor and working on a taking turns,  a reciprocal play goal for these kids. But we have to be really mindful of how we're targeting students goals, because we have them for such a limited amount of time and making sure that they are legally getting the needs that are required.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Thank you. Yeah.

[17095-116] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (sentence onset clipp | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: And do you have where if a child is in one of the community partnerships like Headstart or Green Mountain, and they discontinue their attendance there, what happens then?
TEXT> I am. Currently in that situation due to a few of my children have now lost, their child care. So a lot of children in our community receive childcare vouchers to pay for that childcare, and when they lose those vouchers, they no longer have payment to to continue in those daycares. So,  you know, I'm working on trying to make sure that I can get them in for drop in services because they legally need their, their services. So it's it's challenging. It's a lot of a lot of obstacles with that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I just have a quick question and maybe this is complicated, but is there an option for us to, provide or allow our community partners or pay our community port

[17095-156] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Claremont middle school spring athletics.
TEXT> Okay. So thank you. Good evening everyone.  Just to follow up, we appreciate  Sean La Plante, who is our volunteer athletic director at CMS at the middle school.  Has been working hard, coordinating schedules, getting games and everything else. And one of the  things that we noticed was a need was the uniforms. And so right now, getting ready for the spring sports, there are not a lot of there's, you know, you've heard shirts and pennies and different things that they wear for competitions or if things and they're dated, old torn and things like that, there's not enough for all the students. We understand and recognize the financial responsibilities right now. And so we're not looking for the local budget. So Sean had reached out looking at different options. And so one of them happened to be the Bird Foundation. And and so I just want to clarify that the Jack and Dorothy Bird Foundation Burn Foundation  and had put through a request and was, for a donation and was granted a $10,000 donation. So we're looking for a motion to accept the $10,000 donation that would cover.  And I apologize. Just pull up the specifics for you. Where is it? The specific uniforms and shirts for the students for the spring,  spring sports. And so new uniforms for all sims, spring sports, and then spring placement equipment required for safe and competitive play.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so it would be managed for that. And, make sure it complies with all of the needs we have for safety for our students. And our sports players.

[17095-157] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-21
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: I apologize. Just pull up the specifics for you. Where is it? The specific uniforms and shirts for the students for the spring, spring sports. And so new uniforms for all sims, spring sports, and then spring placement equipment required for safe and competitive play.
TEXT> And so it would be managed for that. And, make sure it complies with all of the needs we have for safety for our students. And our sports players.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Like to make a motion that we accept with gratitude. The $10,000 grant from the Jack and Dorothy Byrne Foundation. Okay.

[17095-162] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Generosity can't be overstated.
TEXT> Exactly. We so appreciate the support for our students and the schools.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Moving into our second agenda item. Final finalization and adoption of proposed budget for the deliberative session. Mr. Angel is going to lead this discussion.

[17095-202] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: is putting a gun to people's heads. And it's not a genuine or sincere attempt on the board's part to actually provide a budget that does the two things that we're trying to achieve, which is to provide a good education at a reasonable price.
TEXT> And so I think that what we should do is that we should continue to look for further efficiencies in the main budget of 42 of as the amendment is presented, which would be roughly $42,957,713, and deal with the default budget as it stands  and be accountable for what we're doing. I think that,  I think in my attempt to  find a middle ground or a compromise, I wasn't being true to our our  our ideals. We don't have to attach this number to a model. We can tell the administration what our value system is and allow them to determine how to execute those values. One of the reasons why I felt so strongly for the model that's not on the table. We're not talking about it. I'm not trying to advocate for it, is that it gave so much support staff to students. It gave extra guidance counselors, it gave interventionists, it gave kept the school psychologist. It funded all of our all of our sports programs and was still budget neutral, that that's what we should be doing. And the thought of us just cutting academic supports and putting that burden of making a decision on the taxpayers to either, like I said, the grandparents or the parents having to decide whether or not the kids get sports or we raise their taxes, it seemed  unconscionable to me, and it's something that I felt that I couldn't, could no longer support.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So, the motion that I would be making is to amend the bottom line budget, bottom line for the aligned model to the number which I had put forth. Which.

[17095-210] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: Just I just want to make sure I understand.
TEXT> Right. And I sat in that meeting last night, and I listened to people and I really listened to people. And I said, what am I trying to do here? I am supporting, I am supporting a budget, bye bye bye. Carving out the sports I'm supporting a budget that carves out all the academic supports that I think will be valuable, valuable and carving out all the athletics that I think is extremely valuable. I mean, we have I think our sports teams are a marvel, quite simply because we we hear from the educators how hard it is to handle these kids, how they come from traumatic families. And it's such a challenge to get them to achieve. And the coaches can bring them to championships. So I, I couldn't ethically do it. So I'm not going to bring forth that warrant article. And what I would like to do is charge the administration to keep what we need for academics. Everything that you need is think is valuable for academics. That's what should be priority. And we shouldn't be asking the community to make that  like Hobson's choice or forced and bargain, whatever, you know, metaphor you want to use. So that's my,  that's my request for an amendment.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: You didn't finish reading.

[17095-227] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: opportunity to hold ourselves fiscally accountable and still hold true to our values without putting voters in an untenable and unfair position to choose whether their kids or their grandkids play sports or whether their taxes go up, I think it's our responsibility. As Crawford.
TEXT> I, This didn't this didn't happen overnight. We've been talking no, we have been talking about this budget for three months. We haven't we have been talking. And whether the public knows it or whether they've been paying attention, we have been having a lot of meetings and we have been asking for administration for cuts. Every single person on this board I know has been calling that and asking for members where it could be cut. And so all of a sudden, just over the past 24 hours, to find another 865,000 is pretty unreasonable, I think. And we had discussed that. Yes, we were trying to be,  recognizing the public  and the the huge financial expectation we put on them that is not is not reasonable. And we could go we could talk about funding of state of education in New Hampshire. We won't go there. But to keep it reasonable, as much as we are possible, it is our obligation to provide an education for these kids and for us to in a in with no input from any of us in 24 hours, to cut another $865,000 from this budget is totally unrealistic. I will I will completely support the cutting of the people that we the positions that we talked about, to get it to a budget neutral number that gets us to a budget neutral number.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: With the Athletics separated out. And because athletics are a choice, that's not required and we can give folks the chance, it's up to them. It's it's their choice. It's

[17095-297] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair (sentence onset; the chair recognizes him in t | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: this any further. But I wanted to make sure that that I had clarification and then that folks knew what we were actually doing here. And that's it. We can move the question. We don't need to belabor it. Mr. Peterson and then, Mr. Howard.
TEXT> We've heard  loud and clear from both. Teachers and the community. Different supported ways of budgets. We heard. Loud and clear. Last night from the community that they are not tolerating attacks. Increase. That the budget cap is a. Real threat. The budget cap of putting in the $35 million budget means the potential of shutting this building down from the tech center and turning it into an elementary school. The threat is real. It's not just talk. People are going to come out. And if we don't come up with a with a better answer than a 44, $46 million budget, then we're really putting this district in jeopardy of being able to educate the kids the way the kids need to be educated. I think at 42, $42.5 million, we can educate the kids very well and use our resources and move things around. We need to look at  athletics to step up and and someone needs to step up and say, this program. This is not functioning well. It needs to go. When you're fighting to get kids to join a sports team that's floundering, when you're fighting to find a coach for sports team that's flowering, why?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Why do we just put the same numbers forward? There's other areas. I mean, I don't touch music and arts because they're flourishing. They're growing with the work they've done

[17095-298] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: and someone needs to step up and say, this program. This is not functioning well. It needs to go. When you're fighting to get kids to join a sports team that's floundering, when you're fighting to find a coach for sports team that's flowering, why?
TEXT> Why do we just put the same numbers forward? There's other areas. I mean, I don't touch music and arts because they're flourishing. They're growing with the work they've done and the stress of, you know, the tech center is starting to to flourish now, texana is down and out, and the threat of a $35 million budget is just untenable. So. We're putting a number forward. We took the three school model off the table, but we were also told very specifically that a for school model, the only reason for a four school model is, is to get to a two school model. This community is not going to go to a two school model. You have to spend millions of dollars to renovate a building to do a two school model. How do we ever get to two school? We don't. That's why I supported  it's off the table, but that's why I supported the three school model. But if you go to a four school, one model for next year, you're still disrupting the kids the way the teachers and people have asked you not to. There's still disruption. Then you think at anytime soon you're going to get to a three school model.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: After that, no matter how much you pitch it and plan it and sell it, you just disrupted the kids to go to a for school line model. And now

[17095-299] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: you go to a four school, one model for next year, you're still disrupting the kids the way the teachers and people have asked you not to. There's still disruption. Then you think at anytime soon you're going to get to a three school model.
TEXT> After that, no matter how much you pitch it and plan it and sell it, you just disrupted the kids to go to a for school line model. And now what, a year or two years from now, we're going to pitch a three school model because we need to do what's best for our resources and what's best for our community and what's best for the kids. We're not going to get there, so let's. Just. It's frustrating. It's frustrating because we can educate. We can do a great job. We do a great job educating kids. We can make it even better by better using our resources.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Howard.

[17095-310] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes, Miss Hawkins.
TEXT> I just have two comments. Lauren, I also supported maintaining the schools the way they were for this upcoming year and hearing the community come forward and looking at the impact on the taxpayers and on all of us, I can see where that is no longer feasible, and it's hard to reach that point. Regarding state scores, I totally agree with you that the there's no reason for them to be with AR, except what I will add is that up until maybe two years ago, we did not have a consistent curriculum across the grade levels. We did not have formative assessments where teachers were assessing kids weekly every other week and watching progress. We did have that information provided to us  by Mr.. And we were starting to see growth. And so to show that on a standardized test takes time and it takes professional development and it takes, as you said, mentoring or Frank said, mentoring. It takes a lot of in-house focus on instruction and improving instruction at all the different levels. So when I hear our state scores, I get it. I feel the same way. But I also think that we need to look deeper in terms of what are our kids accomplishing  and how are our kids functioning when they come into school.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: We've heard about the preschool. There are a lot of factors that go into it, and I'm not preaching. I just I just that's my opinion and I just had

[17095-619] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-21
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: Okay.
TEXT> Just as a normal practice, there's no recommendation on here by the school board because it's. It is what. It is. It is what it is. All right, so the next one, article six, which is now article five, sale or lease of Bluff Elementary School property, shall the district vote to authorize the school board to sell or lease the property at ten Summit Road, Claremont, New Hampshire, located at the Victim Bluff Elementary School, where the buildings that are on in such a manner, in such a terms as it deems in best interest of the district, and to further authorize the School Board to take any and all to actions to facilitate and or consummate this conveyance, including security, securing necessary approvals, and executing necessary documents with set sail, subject to the district's compliance with the statutory right of first review. First refusal provisions granted to charge this by RSA 19161. Majority vote required. So this is a  vote to add and recommend or not.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Okay.

[17095-631] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Opposed? See? No opposition. No. Abstentions is moved.
TEXT> Eight, which is now article seven. Article. Seven is now article six sale or at least a 52 Maple Ave. Shall the district vote to authorize the school board to sell or lease the property located at 52 Maple Ave, Claremont, Hampshire,  located  location of the former Masonic Temple with the buildings thereon in such a manner on such terms as deemed deems in the best interest of the district, and to further authorize the School Board to take away and take any and all actions to facilitate and or consummate this conveyance, including securing necessary approvals. And executing. Necessary documents with said sales, subject to the district's compliance with statutory right. First refusal provisions created to charge schools by RSA 19461 which are reported required, and this would be the same motion to add it to the warrant article, and recommended.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That we. Put article six, sale or lease of 52 Maple Ave on the ballot with our recommendation.

[17095-669] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2026-01-21
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: Okay.
TEXT> It doesn't feel like a knife to my throat. It feels like a knife to the school strikes. I'm a board member.  So I don't necessarily feel like this is going to be a personal stab at me. And if that's its intent to be a stab at the board, it's completely inefficient and shortsighted. I think we need to do what's best by our kids, and this is clearly not that. So if it's a poor attempt to shank us or whatever, then it's even worse. I don't see how that could justify doing it. Further, Bill, you and I are full of people that are new to the board. You're also new to Claremont, so I don't know why you would want to be changed over over this, let alone our children be shamed, because  if you perceive it as us, it's not us. You're not attending the school anymore? Yeah, just that's just a weird way to to frame this.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay.

[17095-671] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay.
TEXT> I'd like to respond to that. It's us, collectively as the board taking responsibility for our predecessors, the School of Management. The school system has failed for going on three decades, and I take that responsibility very seriously. And if I put in personal terms, why should they believe this? They've been believing us for 30 years and we've never delivered. And then somehow we lost one, one and a half, 55.011, 1012. We don't know. We've been so inept that we can't even put our finger on a number of how much money we lost, and we're looking at them as our slaves and piggy bank and just saying, give us more money this time we're going to do it right. It's not just the children and I'm so sick of hearing about do it for the children because I am here for the children. I don't get paid for this. This is not fun. I'm doing it for the children. I'm doing it for the taxpayers. I'm doing it for the reputation of the city of Claremont. We collectively and our predecessors have destroyed the reputation of Claremont.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Who knows how many millions of dollars. Nobody wants to come to Claremont now. I'm on the selection committee for the new leadership. Looking forward to that. Who wants to

[17095-674] Loren Howard | School Board Member (sentence onset clipped into an adjacent cluster) | 2026-01-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: one, this cap at the appropriate level. So that's why I oppose this particular cap, the way this is stated. But if there were different if this were a little bit different, I could potentially support something, but just not this current one. Mr. Howard.
TEXT> Just a. Quick clarifier. I think we all take responsibility. My my offense was that the idea that this is a somehow justifiable Warren carbon coal to push back on us as a board, it's a warrant particle that would destroy the schools. And that's what's going to hurt the children. I'm not  making some appeal to, you know, a motion specifically. I think if anything, maybe you were. And the emotion was anger.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Okay.

[17095-729] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair (sentence onset clipped into an adjacent cluster) | 2026-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Really I do I.
TEXT> Would. I would concur with Frank. What we've lacked is we've had in my experience or in the history of the district, I think,  is that we've confused people who are good at or were good teachers or good principals with somebody who's a good administrator. And there are two different things, and this happens.  It happens a lot, and it happens in my field as well. And that administrative capability is often very separate. But a good administrator recognizes that they need to value the expertise of those that they are seeking an opinion. I think the number two person would be extremely strong, and it would have to be the board's job to ensure that that person's voice is elevated and in the interview process that it would be clear or that the whoever the applicant is would offer without being asked that that is how they would lead. We've just had an issue with oversight. I mean, our superintendent didn't help with developing curriculum. He just made sure that there was resources available and advocated on behalf of whomever was the curriculum director. But our superintendent didn't do that. And just lacked a tremendous amount of administrative skills. So I don't think you're throwing the baby out with the bathwater with this one. And it really would be up to the board to ensure that whoever the administrator is, you know,  advocates for those in those educational leadership positions.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Because you're not.

[17095-732] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford first.
TEXT> You know, I think that we have gotten burned the past. I fully agree, the past three superintendents have been disasters. But that's and we've had a financial crisis over this past year. We still must focus. We're trying to educate kids. And we've got to  our our, our performance. The kids performance is horrible. And I think if we don't continue to have emphasis, I, I fully agree that the person needs to have strong, managerial skills, strong fiscal knowledge and management skills. But they also it is extremely important that we focus on education and educational achievement. And, to say that secondary  is, I think we're missing the boat, but that's just that's my opinion.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I don't think the education is secondary. I think this opens up your field to.

[17116-10] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: sure the school reorganization, as we know it needs to shift over the years and things. And again, I have to start on that and making sure we can identify what's the strong points and where we need to work on some of that reconfiguration.
TEXT> We want to provide for staffing for all levels of instruction. So tier one is your typical Ell students are at tier one level, tier two where students in need of intervention,  could be title one, just an area of need to support. Tier three is often considered special education, but it could be students would go back and forth between the two years, depending upon their needs of instructional levels. We want to balance out the classroom student numbers. So one of the things we had moved over from the bluff students to their new schools and make love, and we had kept them in check so that we could keep them with their classroom teachers. But because of that, there is an inequity of numbers within the classrooms. If we want to try and  ties that across all schools, we'd be able to do that in this model as well. So we've had them in the same group at the same grade level and then reduce the special education costs again, similarly making sure the right there and then that's our goal across all tiers to make sure that our students getting what they need, but then also making sure that we're as efficient in the delivery models as well.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Again, the efficiency and the delivery model supports the instruction meaning to hire fewer people. And that can be in the personnel under the paras. It could be under different

[17116-11] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: reduce the special education costs again, similarly making sure the right there and then that's our goal across all tiers to make sure that our students getting what they need, but then also making sure that we're as efficient in the delivery models as well.
TEXT> Again, the efficiency and the delivery model supports the instruction  meaning to hire fewer people. And that can be in the  personnel under the paras. It could be under different areas. And so we're not reducing anybody that we already have. But the need for  changes over the years and things. So,  service providers will be aligned if you're buildings. And that would be lessening costs  because they're not having to provide duplication of efforts within the two buildings. The current educators across each grade level will have  ability to  collaborate efficiently. And so all of the first grade kindergarten, second graders will be one building all of the other grades with the other building and the proposed model for a  which is the alignment we would serve as interventionist. So any staff, again, we're not reducing or eliminating staff. Any staff, whether or not needed for the classroom levels would be in levels. So for all tiers of construction and allow us to provide a plan that  is more thoughtful  around our service needs to our students, and then we can also play a professional development in accordance to the needs of the students  by grade cohort clusters.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Special educators, of course, will still plan their small group instruction, but then they'll also have access to the students in one location as opposed to two buildings across the

[17116-12] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: So for all tiers of construction and allow us to provide a plan that is more thoughtful around our service needs to our students, and then we can also play a professional development in accordance to the needs of the students by grade cohort clusters.
TEXT> Special educators, of course, will still plan their small group instruction, but then they'll also have access to the students in one location as opposed to two buildings across the district. So the plan would be that they would have grade level  team  meetings, and they would have it across all of the grades  in each one would be able to be right there. So all again, kindergarten, first grade, all the fifth grade would be one area. So either model we're going to talk about this a little bit too. There'll be a school bus transporting students between the schools  because you might have students at both schools and we care. And so one drop off and one pickup point,  there would be school staggered start times. And we would, you know, look at that. Was it look like and make sure it's efficient for families. And again that's in either model to make sure that we're planning accordingly for transportation.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Okay. So revenues that we estimate are going to be pretty much flat as compared to the the past tax rate setting that occurred in December, local revenues, which would

[17116-16] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Okay.
TEXT> Now, as you notice, on the right hand side, it's going to be the gray box. And that signifies that we're moving on to option B. So this is the the the second option which relates to keeping the current configuration of all the schools. So we'd have a five elementary schools. And again the top is the same where it talks about the pupil cost  Ela proficiency math proficiency and science proficiency. But let me read the rest of the warrant article. Shall the Claremont School District raise an appropriate as an operating budget? The amount set forth in the  budget posted with a warrant or as amended by the vote of the first and second session, for the purpose set forced therein totaling  $46,211,951. Should this article be defeated, the default budget shall be $47,800,535, which is the same as last year,  with certain items,  certain adjustments required by the previous action of the school district or by law or the governing body, may hold one special meeting in accordance with RSA 4113 Roman numeral ten and 16 take up the issue of revising the budget only required.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Okay, we were asked to present how does this current model affect everybody? And so obviously it would be the continuity of programs. And so everything that would be in

[17116-17] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Matt Angell: certain items, certain adjustments required by the previous action of the school district or by law or the governing body, may hold one special meeting in accordance with RSA 4113 Roman numeral ten and 16 take up the issue of revising the budget only required.
TEXT> Okay, we were asked to present how does this current model  affect everybody? And so obviously it would be the continuity of programs. And so everything that would be in place right now would be still in place next year. So right now  this model would reduce the number of students. And so there would be transitions.  So students wouldn't have to change. Again,  that was one of the benefits if you want to call it for that short term goal.  And they would stay put as it is. Obviously the fifth grades would still regardless, all fifth graders would move on into both models  to the middle school as would be proposed any other year. So increase achievement of students at all levels and decrease gaps between subgroups. That would be the same thing. We want to make sure. Of course all models would present that. That's our goal. As schools, we want to make sure our students are at their level so that they should be at be deficient  and that there's no gaps in between the subgroups. And then, of course, it's your compliance with required services.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Regardless of that, we've made sure for the models that would be there, the again, transportation would still be available. Thank you. And students would be available at the elementary

[17116-22] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: with recommendations to inform future negotiations. And so this would be for a two year agreement. Again, no raises in the first year. And then the second year would be to four 1% and then the ceiling of 4%. It would not be that number.
TEXT> They get all the warrant article pages. So this is the sale or Lisa Bluff Elementary School property. Shall the district vote to authorize the school board to sell or at least the property located at ten Summit Road, Claremont, New Hampshire, location of the vacant Bluff Elementary School, with buildings thereon in such a manner and on such terms as it deems in the best interest of the district, and further authorizes the school board to take any and all actions to facilitate and or consummate this conveyance, including securing necessary approvals and executing the necessary documents with said sales, subject to the district's compliance with the statutory right of first refusal provision granted to Turner Schools by RSA 194  colon  61. This is a majority vote required.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Okay, so what we've been doing since the leasing of bluff is a possibility. There's a nonprofit organization that would be starting a collaborative, looking at special education and discussing

[17116-24] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: need it for future growth. So we want to make sure we have the access and the people to use the building skill as it is. So, that we need more along the lines of the lease as opposed to the sale of the building.
TEXT> The next ward articles of sale, or at least a 52 maple have for the Sonic Lodge. Shall the district vote to authorize the school board to sell, or at least the property located at 52 Maple Ave, Claremont, Hampshire, location of the former  Sonic Temple, with the buildings thereon in such a manner and on such terms as it deems in the best interests of the district, and to further authorize the school board to take any and all actions to facilitate and or consummate this conveyance, including securing necessary approvals and executing necessary documents with set sail, subject to the district's compliance with statutory right. First refusal provision granted to charter schools by RSA. 194 Cohen 61. Majority vote required.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And this is similar just discussing a property just as it is and make sure we have the town or city would have access to it some other way. Somebody

[17116-39] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter, Ward 1 — questions the tax-cap petition and program  | 2026-01-20
PREV> Matt Angell: Claremont residents who signed a petition which is within sight of it's allowable basically. Okay. And so I quickly tried to do a quick calculation. And this is the first time that we've said anything publicly about it. Thank you for being honest and transparent.
TEXT> So then I want to just speak to the tax cap more in article real quick and just talk about some of the rental possibilities of cuts that could possibly take place. From that. I would not be able to live with myself if I had to come here and talk about how, not funding athletics or not, I can pick and choose which program you're going to fund. That's a funny game we started playing. Once you start doing that, and I would just like to see I've heard some stories from around town. You know, I think we need to start thinking, you know, more about what's going on with the children in town and start holding them accountable for things that happen and hold some thoughts accountable for things that happen. Thank you.
NEXT> Sherry Williams: Good evening. My name is Sherry Williams, Ward one, Chestnut Street. I confirmed that normally when I come and I speak to you guys, I am aware that you. This

[17116-41] Sherry Williams | Public commenter, Ward 1, Chestnut Street — parent and taxpayer (self- | 2026-01-20
PREV> Sherry Williams: us and I feel like anything that I have to share is going to fall on somewhat deaf ears, because a decision was made at the last meeting about what we as a community actually get a say in, for $26,012.84 a year per student.
TEXT> I could send my school, my child, to a school who is seeing figures like 72% English Proficiency proficiency at Mount Royal Academy for an eighth grader. Although my child is a junior, I could send my child to another school for that amount of money. And for that amount of money, the proficiencies that you're looking at are shameful, and I know that your expectation is that they would be better, but how? And you had an opportunity to look at how  and impact that this year, this coming year, the default budget, I didn't see what percent of a tax increase or the dollar figure that you're doing with a default budget be. The school lunch I see is an increase of 190,000. While I am incredibly sensitive to the food needs of our children, there is part of the program that is bringing us into a measure of debt in that particular area. Because we allow our kids to eat no matter what, regardless of what parents are saying, parents are going into debt and in many times the school is is dealing with that. Option. B does that budget include all 78? I believe you said at the last meeting open positions, and if so, why? Since we know that they will all  not be full, be filled, even if it was a really good year.
NEXT> Sherry Williams: Salaries and benefits in option B are four times as much as an option A, and I'm curious why with the change in the say you structure going to Claremont

[17116-68] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: I get it. Yeah, I agree that aligning, but we discussed it when I was on the board aligning. It definitely will save money just between the two budgets that were presented. It seems a little bit a little bit bloated, but it's.
TEXT> It's operational efficiency. And it also gives more opportunities for educational learning for the kids, because then we're going to be able to have,  all the teachers are going to be able to practice together within that grade area. I think you can speak better to it than I can. And then also we can put more resources to the kids and, and really try to move these test scores.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: Well, my comment would be to make sure that if we're looking at possibly 40 new teachers, we need mentoring, we need people to help the staff and not leave

[17116-70] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter, Ward 2 — self-ID rendered by ASR as 'Tommy' (surname | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: the table. You can't afford the schools. We really need to start looking at selling buildings, the Dow building, you need to close the building now. You need to utilize a space in high school. How many students do we have in Stevens right now?
TEXT> 500. How many students can we handle on Stevens? 1500. We have plenty of space here. Now, looking at this article in January 16th, Kean High School that came from New Hampshire, it was an article on student rates are dropping. That trend is going to continue. Why do we continue to keep our schools open when we know in the future there's going to be less students? My proposal is at three schools, less walls and utilize the resources that we have. Thank you. He scored one. I just want to. I guess, raise the alarm. A little bit about the tax warrant article. We're talking about staffing and keeping people that will make people flee this district. I'm going to be honest with you. And if I could even up here is kind of terrifying to me as a staff member and also as a coach. Full disclosure, and I really hope the school board comes out against this article. When you guys talk about it. Tomorrow it will be the competition. Heather's not getting the keys. I think that this is a tough year for us in the district, and people have stayed because we love the kids. We love these schools. Absolutely. But that is a lot. And I think you want a school is close to take center, hit the tech center.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: Like Courtney said, I don't even know how that works, like space wise, all that stuff. And I just think that is a very large jump to get to get.

[17116-85] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter — former district officeholder ('when I left office') | 2026-01-20
PREV> Matt Angell: a revenue to the district. When we say mandated by law, that's part of the default budget. And that's what the expenses were, the outflow of money. So adequate, Ed, is the inflow of money. And the default budget is calculates the outflow of money.
TEXT> Okay. So we're looking at we see the tier one, tier two, tier three a lot. So I'm wondering what is the current  special education percentage like. How many pupils. What's that percentage in the district currently. Because I know when I left office it was significantly high. And I don't know if it's still the same or if it's gotten higher. And, how we're going to  budge that number at all, like, even though I mean, even moving to the option that I like that decreases, like not decreases, but, minimizes my taxes as much as humanly possible. Yeah. No, we are we are high. We see the state every year to 30% of our students have special ed and I'm sorry, 33. About 37 don't exactly know. But,  okay, so we're running out of time. So  two other things. Where is the  alternative Stevens Academy going? Not the special education camp, life skills, any of that stuff. Where is the academy going that does the behavioral  stuff? Because they're at the tech center now, and as far as I know,  that's they can't be there.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: And it didn't really. Yeah. Sorry. We're still working on that. Yeah. Okay. And then if we sell the Mason building, whatever, whatever is, if we lease left to a

[17116-106] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: So, like, were there any changes that happened there. Yeah.
TEXT> That's so yeah. So the the changes there were when we aligned the grades, we were able to add  quite a few intervention teachers. On top of that, we also had an incredible mentorship model where we had a very successful retired teacher come back and work on the skills for teachers. She was able to work  one on one for,  I think, three teachers for three days a week. The other model was  to better improve teacher evaluation, to have more of a targeted professional development. And so with all of that, we were able to improve the the ability to teachers to address the student needs and achieve higher sports. Now, I'm not an educator. I was the one who did all the finances for it.  We were able to bridge the  we had a very powerful taxpayer group. I can hear some of the, the, the voices here in the very similar. And we were able to sell this program to that taxpayer group and, and move these tax, I mean,  move these test scores along. So we were able to, keep the the  tax rate down while improving the the test scores. Now also, I did speak with another school district,  this warning  related to someone else trying to apply to a position there.
NEXT> Matt Angell: And they had also realigned all of their models. And this this was a school board member that I was speaking to. And, and he he could not say enough

[17116-113] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter — questions the proficiency projections and special-e | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: And then when we're up higher than the state average, they need to keep that in mind as well. When we're looking at a provision straits. So just kind of want to put it out there that we started this idea of restructuring in 2021.
TEXT> And we had prepaid through one and two, three and 4 or 5 and no closures of schools. And then we had pre-K through four and five through seven and eight through 12. And now we're like at year six. We've got well, let's do k three and four six and 712. And so I guess my point is, why can't we take one year to legitimately like think through what is best for this district by maybe bringing in some experts who might be able to help us make that decision, rather than throwing a new idea every year.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Okay, I'm just going to be really quick with a, some guidance that I, I've given administrators for the last couple of months. If we don't manage the budget, the

[17116-121] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: sell that building. You really need to start getting rid of these things off of budget. You know, I don't see the population of Claremont increasing with kids. So why why would we want to just keep these buildings? And that's all I actually do.
TEXT> A quick answer about the Dow building. If we sell the Dow building, we'll have to part with a portion of the parking. And so it would push more parking out on Broad Street, which I've heard  comments and concerns about the kids parking out on Broad Street. And there's desire to try to  get them into our parking lot.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: Thank you. Dialog Ward two. What was he going to speak? We had some comments about mentoring and. New teachers and. Bringing in experts. I cringed, you know, our solution

[17116-128] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter — self-described lifelong educator; asks about amendi | 2026-01-20
PREV> Matt Angell: You cannot change the language. You can't add or subtract.
TEXT> Thank you. Question  my other comment while we're here.  I don't want to make that. I'm all about easing the taxes because that's not my plan. My plan is to do what's best for our students and teachers. And so what I want to see, so I'm not opposed to looking at other models such as the three school model. I just think that it was a very rushed decision this year, considering the turmoil that a lot of our teachers and students went through. I would love to see this school board and I will be here to help. I'll be on the committee. I am  100% educator and an educator my whole entire life and still in school to this day. So if we could look at that as soon as we get this budget passed through, the ones that we were actually focusing on, that would be wonderful.  And then my other question is, has the board been does the board get a chance to actually look at the budget on their own time and they just can't discuss it with each other?
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: Is that the rule? So you're hopefully looking at things that you could bring to the table at your next discussion. So we're not not all up here because I

[17116-149] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: So I'll second.
TEXT> Miss Hawkins, Mr. Sprague. I have a favorite or any discussion. All in favor, say aye.  Aye aye. Any opposed? Any abstentions? Seeing none, the public hearing is closed. And on behalf of the board and on the administration, I want to thank everybody who came this evening. These questions were so thoughtful and, and so respectful. And I'm so proud to be a part of this community. And we will take all these things into consideration tomorrow. And if you're able to attend, please attend. And if not, it will be televised. And most importantly, we want to make sure that folks come out on September, excuse me,  February 7th for the deliberative session. And we'll have,  detailed information on the website about that. And I also, again, want to remind folks that we have multiple positions or for candidate positions. Moderator one year, treasurer one year, one year, and two school board member three term three year terms. And was that. We have a visual that's coming up and. It's. On the website. It's available. And it just has the dates that are broken out with some, you know, information about  the dates of coming up to the deliberative session and some other things too. But those are your visual learners might want to see that instead of just the checklist that just shows you what's going on and wanted to be there. So coming up, some websites.
NEXT> Unidentified: Where a small where smiling.

[17125-33] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair; Policy Committee Chair | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you.
TEXT> I'm speaking on behalf of this article. The agreement does the following three things in year one. As you can see, $0. It is cost neutral. Year two a range of salaries based on user service and credentials. The wage scale will be increased by a cost of living adjustment. Cola equal to the northeast CPI year in effect for December of the preceding calendar year, provided that the Cola shall be at least 1%, but no more than 4%. So there is a formula we will be following based on the CPI number three. This agreement creates a joint committee to research and evaluate the current administrator compensation package, including salary and benefits. This joint benefit. This joint committee will be looking at regional, national and the packages that we have and the costs for our district. The committee. Will be made up of administrators. And representatives from the board. During the negotiations, our administrators proposed, they proposed the 0% salary increase. They know the depth of our financial crisis, and they were living it every day, providing stability for students and working with the administration to develop a plan to get us through the year. The board recommends this article and we hope you will support this article as well. Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you, Mrs. Hopkins. Is there anyone wishing to speak against the article, Mike Bars?

[17125-52] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair; Capital Improvement Committee Chair (reads Ar | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: in favor. Of this? Seeing none. This will be passed on to the ballot. We will not proceed. For the first meeting. I believe. This is presented. To this over five sales. This up? I still. Of what elementary. School the moderate. Recognizes might be.
TEXT> Good morning. I heard five school property. Shall the district. Vote to. Authorize the. School board to. Sell, or at least the property located at ten. Southern Road, Claremont. We have shared. The location of the vacant Lot Elementary School with the building thereon in such manner, and on such terms as it deems in the best interest of the district, and to further authorize the School Board to take any and all action to facilitate and or consummate this conveyance, including securing necessary approvals and executing the necessary documents. It said sale subject to district compliance with statutory right of first refusal provision granted to charter schools by RSA 19461. The school board recommends this article.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Come forward. To the podium.

[17125-87] Unidentified | School board member speaking to the Bluff School amendment (self-ident | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Anyone wishing to speak against this to article amendment. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of this particular moderator haven't taken in great strength. That's right. It's just that people can go.
TEXT> Springboard to. Echo what Jason. Spencer said. I think that having been a landlord myself, It's not easy, but I want to get back to what it's a key point I think having made. Is. That,  in others, that there's a real lack of trust. I think that the board and the administration will  handle the sale or the lease with the best interests of the taxpayers at heart. And I think that's I think that's talent, given what we've all been through. It's going to take a while for me to get and trust that, I'm sure. But again, I and I don't and I've heard people talking about making sure we get the market value for the building. I'm not sure that's really what should be the main objective. I agree with the liability, the maintenance, the upkeep. All of these things are are  far greater long term costs than $100,000 difference in what we might actually get for the building. And so I think that it I really would like to go for a sale. I understand all of this covering ourselves with leasing at it.  But I think the basic problem we have, and again, with all the people in the room, is people don't trust us. And I think that that's  something that the board needs to overcome.
NEXT> Unidentified: Whatever the vote is on this, I think that we need to, as we did in the public hearing around the budget, we need to hear people and really make

[17125-114] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair; Capital Improvement Committee Chair (reads Ar | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Five the scale of these six, the scale of these of two being known as the temple, the moderator recognizes that.
TEXT> Good morning. Six sale or lease 52 Maple Avenue. The district  to authorize the school board to. Sell. Or lease the property located at 52 Maple Avenue, Claremont, New Hampshire. Location of the former. Masonic Temple, with the buildings thereon in such manner and on such terms as it deems in the best interests of the district, and to further authorize the School Board to take any and all actions to facilitate and or  consummate this conveyance, including securing  necessary approvals and executing necessary documents with said sale, subject to the district's compliance with the statutory right or first refusal provisions granted to charter schools by a 194 call in 61. The school board recommends this article.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Mr. Brad would like to speak to this.

[17125-142] Zachary Wood | Voter, Ward 2 (self-identified) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Please come the podium.
TEXT> Zachary Wood from Ward two.  You say that this article doesn't remove the parents right to send them to a different school in another town, but by removing the ability for them to use the. By removing the ability for them to use the tax allotted  funding for the student, then you're putting 100% financial burden on the parent, which I think most parents can't actually afford to do. So you are, in a way, stripping them their right to choose which school to go to. If they don't feel that Claremont is a good enough school, then why not let our taxpayers to go  tax dollars go to a school that's better and maybe in Claremont should improve.  Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: To speak in favor of this. I believe, is the first.

[17125-148] April Woodman | Voter, Ward 3 (self-identified) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Can I ask you a point of order if you want to come to the podium?
TEXT> April. Woodman, Ward three. Can you clarify for me? I understand the overarching concern about not sending our kids and taking our money with us. What's that? My question would be the not to exceed 10% kids that we're willing to receive. What is the criteria of who we're willing to receive? I know there's a special education and all, but what is it? Our ability to say no. That's a question I'm going to refer to the board.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I believe our superintendent is going to speak to us. Yes. Mr.. More details to it. But again, here we we want to be able to take a look at

[17125-149] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (the moderator's handoff is captured at  | 2026-02-07
PREV> April Woodman: exceed 10% kids that we're willing to receive. What is the criteria of who we're willing to receive? I know there's a special education and all, but what is it? Our ability to say no. That's a question I'm going to refer to the board.
TEXT> I believe our superintendent is going to speak to us. Yes. Mr.. More details to it. But again, here we we want to be able to take a look at the students, but there are higher costs potentially coming in. And so by allowing other students come in, we may be allowing more debt to come into our students coming to the schools.
NEXT> April Woodman: Therefore my question what is our ability to say no? What is the criteria?

[17125-152] April Woodman | Voter, Ward 3 (self-identified) | 2026-02-07
PREV> James O'Shaughnessy: of interests in New Hampshire have policies for nonresident students. That's a starting place for what the criteria can be, but there is currently no policy in place or no restrictions on who the board will allow to come into the school for open enrollment.
TEXT> So I want to be very clear. As of right now, we do not have a criteria that says if you have a student, for whatever reason, that would cost this district $250,000. We have no criteria to say no, I'm sorry, we don't have a spot for your child. Is that true?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Is the spending district's responsibility. And so looking at the numbers of, you know, the 80% piece. And so depending on the districts and what they're sending to us, they're

[17125-160] Unidentified | Parent from the floor with three children in the district (name not st | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak against Brian?
TEXT> Six students out of district. My concern is, I guess, more of a practical one.  I do have three kids in the district currently, and  we are having a really hard time with staffing levels. What is going to happen when we go, you know, get ready to go back to school next year? There are not enough teachers to teach the kids, which is already a situation for  a class that my sons are supposed to be taking this quarter at Stevens. They don't have a teacher for it, so they're going to sit in a study hall. What happens next year to the kids who? You know, because we don't have enough. What happened next year when we don't have enough teachers to teach the classes and this has gone through. What do we do? What do I do? What do I do with my kids at that point? That's all.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing. To speak up? I'm sorry. You take.

[17125-162] Joe Carrier | Voter from the floor (self-identified; ward not stated) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing. To speak up? I'm sorry. You take.
TEXT> Hi. My name is Joe Carrier. I'm poor. You should be able to pick as a tack to go in any district in this state to send you kids to school, right? It's not a fair if you don't feel this school can give you a kid a good education, you should be able to send it to another school. And that's what it's all about. The education for your child should be your up to you. All right. Thank you.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Is the responsibility. Of. This of a descending district? Whatever. When when the special education student resides in the town, wherever they are assigned, it is the local school district

[17125-165] Sherry Williams | Voter, Ward 1 (self-identified; the 8/5/26 draft minutes spell it 'She | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Okay. Anyone from. The school district, we should just speak for the cycle. Approach the podium, please.
TEXT> Sherry Williams, Ward one. Just want to make sure that I'm reading this correctly and that the community is hearing this correctly. We're talking about being able to send our kids anywhere in the way I'm reading the 0% is that we would be limiting the number or percentage, in this case of Claremont School District. Students who may attend open  outside of Claremont to zero. And so  that is not what you're hearing or what you think you're hearing about  being able to send your kids and take your tax dollars outside the Claremont School District. And so my question is, is that. Am I reading that correctly that this is about allowing students opening the Claremont School District and allowing students in? It is not about opening our tax dollars for going out. So okay, so if it is both, can you please explain  what the 0% is that limit the percentage of students residing in the school district who may attend open enrollment schools located outside the school district to 0%, because I'm reading that apparently incorrectly.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: The moderator is superintendent.

[17125-167] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: The moderator is superintendent.
TEXT> So we are trying to keep playing on the service in our schools. We are trying to work hard to make sure we're providing. I understand the  practice. We are working very hard to shift things. Our mandate  school budget was trying to align everything for the school so that we can make sure that we are getting the best educators and to speak to the staffing to make sure that we have the staffing in place  to accommodate all students educational needs. We obviously want to protect our students.  I understand the ability of the people to be able to go there without restricting the open discussions, but we're trying to protect the funding that goes with the students, and so that we are not writing extra funding to other towns and districts, because we are on the floor of that liability for the funding. So we want to make sure we have some folks that are able to still stay here, and then make sure we understand  that there is still the House bill coming up. And that's something that you can speak to as well in for or against as a taxpayer. But we want to just try to limit the number students are going because we need to protect the students that we have to work.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Superintendent Kennedy. Going to order. A point of order. Podium. I just want to remind everyone that point of order is a procedural.

[17125-177] Unidentified | Voice from the floor (name not stated) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak against this article?
TEXT> Okay. Back again. I'm against it. I'm a favor of it. I'm against dancing for a simple reason. We've done this before. A couple of times. We're going to make all this money. They all left. Here we are again. We put up a trade school for. Claremont is a factory town. It cannot get any better. And it can't get any worse because we're already at the bottom of the barrel. But if you feel sugar, who's going to be the receiver and who's going to be the hand up? It's a state made up their mind because Claremont going to be considered as a state and a receiver of open enrollment. Or are we going to let these kids get out of bussing just right around the state? Somebody's got to receive and somebody got to ask for it. Okay. How do you do it? It's the same time we've got more tax dollars as to what they're going to pay, because if you put them into special education, I as a taxpayer, to a lot of pay for it, I don't think anybody else does.
NEXT> Unidentified: So you've got to decide on it. You got free school over there. You can get to run this place. What are we going to do, folks? You're all the

[17125-190] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative, Croydon (self-identified; House Ed | 2026-02-07
PREV> Hope Damon: in concept is a good idea and many states have it, it does not equitably and fairly to taxpayers in New Hampshire, because we fund education 70% by local property taxes. We don't fund education largely from the state the way most other states do.
TEXT> So in other states, the cost of education is more level across different school districts. And if you send a student from one public school district to another public school district, the burden to restrict remains about the same. If we put open and all in any place here, it will not be the same impact on every district. If Claremont doesn't pass this one article and allows Claremont students to go to other schools at  the expense of the school district, you will be paying twice for those students. You will be paying  the tuition costs the 80% to the other district, and you will still be paying the cost of that student here, because it doesn't cost less money to operate schools until you have profoundly fewer students. So if you have a goal of one teacher for every 25 students, until you go over  that 25 students, your cost for the teacher doesn't change. You need another teacher. And so the numbers go down. You still need that one teacher to pay to be covered. For those students in my. Explain this clearly as I would like to, but it is basically what is going to look at. And I'll tell you, I've been having a school budget or deliberative school meeting every day this week.
NEXT> Hope Damon: Very different size communities and different taxpayer burdens. And so far, everyone has been very opposed to open a moment under the present, present state funding model. If you want

[17125-192] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative, Croydon (self-identified; House Ed | 2026-02-07
PREV> Hope Damon: the number of students that they receive based on capacity, but it doesn't define capacity. So that is very open to interpretation. It could be how many students in the classroom. It could be how many is the building able to hold? It could be.
TEXT> Or excluding the AP classes that are full. And the student who wants to come needs AP classes. It's very vague about what capacity. I mean, it's not there. It just doesn't say what it means. Sorry, I'm just looking at my notes here. Oh, and the question of doesn't apply to district agreements like between Unity and Claremont. This doesn't change that. This Warren article, the state bill is silent on that. And so that has come up in all the meetings that I have attended. It is not at all clear in the present language in the state that what would happen with agreements between one district and another that presently exists. So, for example, in Croydon,  tuition, all the kids after fourth grade, various different places because our schools came for.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Representative gaming aircraft just wrapped up.

[17125-206] Emily Sandblade | Primary petitioner for Article 8, Ward 3 (self-identified; ASR renders | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: The ad, as is now on the floor. Anyone wishing to speak in favor? Here?
TEXT> Emily Stanway, 100%. Because. Why? Because what has happened here this last year is is unforgivable. And you and you can't be trusted with anything. When money comes your way, you can't. Just like the open enrollment, every child who wants to leave should be able to leave. This is live free or die. You should. John Stark. You guys don't live by that at all. You want to be shamed. You ought to be ashamed of yourselves. All of you. I resign. Every single one of, you know, ship all the kids out. That's what I say. Because you can't be trusted. Like this. This woman in Smyrna. My God, I'm not smirking here.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Please take your seat.

[17125-220] Unidentified | Voter from the floor speaking against the budget cap (name not stated) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Okay.
TEXT> This budget cap would institute that crisis every year going forward. Plus 3%, which isn't really anything because you're under. No about you. My paycheck doesn't go up every year just because of inflation. And I really do appreciate  and I believe and I think she's great. I like talking to her. And I think she does want what's best for this community. But I just want to say here in general, I think there's a real misunderstanding about some facts. Every single one of us in this room should be on the same team. The poorest cursing for their money has more in common with the richest person in this city than the richest person in his seat. To say nothing of the richest person in this nation to live in New Hampshire at a bare minimum level of security that is lower middle class, you need a minimum annual household income of $108,000. And this is from the Cato Institute, one of the most conservative, anti-tax. Fiscally responsible groups in this nation. So a two adult household needs to make $54,000 each to be considered lower middle class. And the average teacher in Claremont makes less than that. Teachers and students are not the ones getting rich. All of your hard work teachers and students are the ones kicking seniors out of their homes. Those are banks to you in pain. No one in Claremont is getting rich from this unfair and unjust situation you find ourselves in.
NEXT> Unidentified: I don't know what the answer is to all of our problems, but taking money from our kids future because insurance companies keep raising prices is not the right decision.

[17125-221] Unidentified | Voter from the floor speaking against the budget cap (name not stated) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Unidentified: the ones getting rich. All of your hard work teachers and students are the ones kicking seniors out of their homes. Those are banks to you in pain. No one in Claremont is getting rich from this unfair and unjust situation you find ourselves in.
TEXT> I don't know what the answer is to all of our problems, but taking money from our kids future because insurance companies keep raising prices is not the right decision. I love Claremont and I hope we can find a way out of this. Oh, you gave me for good so much. As to how the taxes. Go here. But if you turn around and have your place reassessed in with the possibility of two years being back up, the same amount of money to pay out again. Where are you going to get it? You have in your front yard or in your backyard that's going to produce these bills. I have nothing against giving them a raise and everything else, but I'd like to have it done right. If you're if you're a good teacher and our school goes from the cellar up to the closer to the top or a half away. Anyway, thanks for doing the raised. But if our kids stay where they are right now, all we're doing is is creating more of them. They have problems in the future. When I worked here and I used to get people to come in and  pull out an application, I had a strong word to put their name and then I couldn't read it anyway. We just cannot continue down the same road. We keep throwing money and all. I know 3% is hard, but are you?
NEXT> Unidentified: Seniors don't get much more than that. When the government says, there you go, you go back to work. We've got to come up with a solution that works for

[17125-222] Unidentified | Older voter from the floor speaking on taxes and reassessment (name no | 2026-02-07
PREV> Unidentified: come in and pull out an application, I had a strong word to put their name and then I couldn't read it anyway. We just cannot continue down the same road. We keep throwing money and all. I know 3% is hard, but are you?
TEXT> Seniors don't get much more than that. When the government says, there you go,  you go back to work. We've got to come up with a solution that works for everybody. I like it here, but I don't want it to be pushed out of this town. When I came here, it was very prosperous. Within three years became became. Before that, we have to look at what our school can produce and what it's going to put us does to produce it. Our students. Right now, I've got three on the road. Their mothers tandem. Sam, over to Roy.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: That's fine. Fine, fine.

[17125-228] Jason Benoit | Voter, Ward 1 (self-identified) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Is there anyone that would like to speak against this? Our.
TEXT> Jason Ben Ward one actually. Notes for this one. I have. Some issues with this simply because it's out on a few budget committees myself, and I explained certain expenses can often go well beyond the consumer price index increases in an movie year. Insurance retirements, they 1037 over 2% a year, and  also math on  the average cost per pupil. Regardless of what is a share. Any of you look at it for people. If you remove two students from a class, the average cost per pupil actually increases. Because of that. It's basic math, but you lose those two students. So say you have 100 people drop out or leave the district and you've got 1500 people in the district. Well, you you've lost 100 people and you're going to take whatever that  costs were pupil and you're going to lose whatever that is 100. But you're not really affecting cost of educating the kids in those classes, because if you break that down over a whole school system and two kids, so every class that's in every school, it's still costs the same to run that class. It's like a ski lift. I can write a ski lift if I put 1% on it, if not the same amount if I put 10,000 people on it.
NEXT> Jason Benoit: Now, granted, on the original scale, but if you put 20 a classroom and reduce that classroom 18 kids, it still cost the same amount to run in that classroom,

[17125-229] Jason Benoit | Voter, Ward 1 (self-identified) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Jason Benoit: so every class that's in every school, it's still costs the same to run that class. It's like a ski lift. I can write a ski lift if I put 1% on it, if not the same amount if I put 10,000 people on it.
TEXT> Now, granted,  on the original scale, but if you put 20 a classroom and reduce that classroom 18 kids, it still cost the same amount to run in that classroom, and it still costs the same amount to to run the school and to heat that school in all of those settings. So I guess my point simply is, if you remove 10%, I would say 100 kids, like 7% of the kids that have the school system. And you reduce the funding by that equivalent amount, it still costs the same to run it and you're just funding it with us. Money. That's so, so with language, I don't think it works. I don't think you.
NEXT> James O'Shaughnessy: Think I'm not the moderator. But I think you're making the motion and you have the floor. You're on the podium. If you have a point of order. I think

[17125-295] Unidentified | Voter from the floor speaking against the budget cap (name not stated) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak against this article?
TEXT> For the same reason. This isn't. The school. Board, but. This is a. Joint effort. No, you all screw it up for a school board meeting. Throwing up for a couple. I'll tell a little bit different in this town, but they can't write it off. And we need to have these students praying for the future, because you can't afford to. And I seen this in other towns where the town population staggered. That's because the kids that are graduating, we're all leaving. That's going to happen to Florida. It's already happened. There was 14,000 pounds for 13 and it was going away. But attend the council meetings as well and to get jobs in this town, because you can't run downtown on nothing when you can't run the school on rush. But this  was probably longer that you don't get any more. Can we take control of the meeting this time? Can we please take control this meeting? Anyway? Please attend. Get off me! Me and I refrigerator start to look like. Based on his low.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's going to be a real damage tax cut. Communities have real problems. They really override them. And what this does is really tell the voters that they don't trust

[17134-9] Don Lavalette | Citizen commenter, Ward 2; declared School Board candidate (self-ident | 2026-02-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Anything else? Seeing nothing, we'll move on with the, amended agenda and the amended minutes for 12126. And then we also have manifest here to go through inside at some point this evening. Yeah. That's that. We'll move on to citizens and comments. Any citizens.
TEXT> Good evening. Good evening, Don  Ward two. So I was thinking about Saturday, and I just wanted to remind folks that, you know, there are no Republican or Democratic seats in that auditorium. The only seats that are there are cardinal seats. During the past several months, as I become a candidate for the school board, I've had the opportunity to meet with and sometimes break bread with people of various political affiliations here in the city. And what happened is we tended to agree on far more than we disagreed. Though, on a couple of issues. And you know who you are. You're wrong. And that's okay. And wouldn't you know. The seeds of friendship, cooperation and respect or flowering. And, you know, teachers, especially elementary teachers, spend a great deal of time emphasizing social skills and encouraging their students to respect each other. And in that spirit of  student expectations, I went looking for some of the behavioral expectations that we as a community expect from our students. And I found what I was looking for in a Stephen's High School handbook on page 22 for those of you following along student responsibilities.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: And I found three that resonate with me. So if you'll indulge me. Number three states that students have a responsibility not to engage in conduct resulting in defamation of

[17134-10] Don Lavalette | Citizen commenter, Ward 2; declared School Board candidate (self-ident | 2026-02-04
PREV> Don Lavalette: student expectations, I went looking for some of the behavioral expectations that we as a community expect from our students. And I found what I was looking for in a Stephen's High School handbook on page 22 for those of you following along student responsibilities.
TEXT> And I found three that resonate with me. So if you'll indulge me. Number three states that students have a responsibility not to engage in conduct resulting in defamation of character. Number six, state students have a responsibility to refrain from using vulgar, profane, and obscene words and making libelous or slanderous statements about others. And Number nine says students should be aware that their out of school conduct reflects on their family, school and community and therefore have a responsibility to conduct themselves accordingly. So come Saturday, I'm not saying don't be mad angry. Insert your adjective or verb here. Hell, I'm mad to it the way we spend some of our money, and I wouldn't expect any less from the city that I'm proud to call home. But you know, as adults we have to set the standard and lead by example. And again, my intent tonight is not to scold sermonizing.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Just consider it an awareness reminder. And let's face it, I'm pretty sure the rest of the state expects us to flounder, fight, demonize each other, and continue to be

[17134-55] Unidentified state representative | State Representative addressing the board in citizens' comments — prim | 2026-02-04
PREV> Unidentified state representative: people. I'd like a big turnout of folks, not only people in the room, but online stuff. If you I realize not all of you can attend, but I think it's about time, after four court rulings that we, the state, ought to do something.
TEXT> And I felt this for years. I filed this bill because of the demands I heard from my constituents and a forum I went to way back in, in Newport last year, and the people were livid at that forum. These are mainly people from Newport and they they demanded, of course, I was a bit offended that you legislators ought to be in jail or find you haven't done your job. So I'm trying to respond to people because I get frustrated, too.  And I think we need to do more,  and we just, you know, the court has said and it's a shame, it is an absolute shame. And I think hopefully  my colleagues will listen and try to do something. And I don't think it's really a Partizan issue. We've all, you know, failed. But I think, you know, we need to work together. And I'm willing to to work with other people from all  parties and everything else to try to come up with a solution that fits New Hampshire. And if we can find because I think the present system doesn't work,  of relying on property taxes to fund education. So that's going to be my message.  Among other things, we've got to the present system doesn't work. It's not working for communities like Claremont. Let's do let's do something. And then,  so bring some property tax relief to Claremont and at the same time adequately fund  our children's education. Thank you very much.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there anyone else that would like to come up and speak for citizens? Comments. I'd like to open the floor to any of the board members. Would

[17134-85] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-02-04
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Thank you.
TEXT> One other quick update. And so the annual report we're working on. So all the principals do their own report I do a statement for it.  We are also working on the compensation package that we promised you. We have updated into the report. It is going to the printers very soon. And so it'll be available very soon. So it'll be ready to head of the March 10th voting day. So just as a quick heads up. So we'll be getting ready for that. And just a quick reminder about the deliberative session. We can't say it enough. So everybody who needs to attend on Saturday  it will be at Stevens High School  in the auditorium. So at 9:00 in the morning. But I also appreciate the tech center is also doing a breakfast that morning. So if anybody wants to attend that,  it will be here at that center. And so just getting ready. So pancake breakfast and more to come on that. So if you haven't seen it come support our students and get ready for that. So thanks for Petra.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Just around back to the preschool full time equivalent. It may be just a small amount, but just for the record, the the speech and language assistant and the occupational

[17134-106] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Capital Improvement Committee Chair; Finance Subc | 2026-02-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: any opposed? Any abstentions? Seeing? None. Motion passes. Thank you. Moving on to our next action item. Fiscal year 27 line items. Funding of programs, including Athletics. Initially Mr. Angel was going to be speaking to this, but he has deferred this to Miss Crawford.
TEXT> Thank you. Last meeting, the school board set the 2627 proposed budget at $42,957,714. This figure was based on funding for a four school model aligned by grade organization. In that budget, the allocated funds for athletics were $1. The administration was tasked with funding with finding changes in line items that could be made up made to free up funds for athletics. The board supports athletics and is aware of what an important role athletics play in school life and students interest in school during the past two weeks. Administration and board members all have reviewed the budget, and the following are some sources for funding athletics that have been identified. Number one, there were two duplicate entries found, one for guidance position at dinner, two were in the budget and we only want one. And the district wide and a district wide position was listed in two different places. These two mounted to a savings of about $250,000. Stevens High School number two, Stevens High School, had requested 5.6 additional teachers. This request was withdrawn, freeing up another sorry.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: You.

[17134-126] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2026-02-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: Three only is.
TEXT> I want to see athletics funded.  I personally believe that across the board there's been a lot of from athletics to special ed to regular ed to there's been a lot of rubber stamping and appears to be overspending everywhere from past budgets.  And that's what I think we're looking to trim down and cut that back and spend responsibly and be responsible for the taxpayers. So me personally, I feel like we need to look, in the next year across the board are there. And my comment about athletics is not that athletics are not doing spectacular things. I firmly believe that there may be a couple areas within the athletic department that we could cut back on some programs, or some that are not getting the participation that they need, or maybe they could change the way they run. And not just every year. Rubber stamp a 863,065 across the board Athletics, arts, music, special ed, regular ed. We need to make sure we're using our funds efficiently,  to educate the kids, to give the kids a great experience in the Claremont School District. So the target is not for myself is not athletics and cutting athletics. It's using our money efficiently, across the board.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So if there are things that are funded that are not getting the participation, or you're having to try to drag kids into the program or the then we need

[17134-129] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2026-02-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: year that would prevent us from spending $860,000 on athletics, for example. And but the money is there. The money is, as of right now, we have to get through the budget and then we can take a look and see what happens after that.
TEXT> I'd like to add to that that, you know, whatever passes for the budget, I would encourage the administration to bring forward the best plan to spend that money into educate our kids, and whether that be the four school model or different model, if it if something passes and we need to look at different models, and I don't think anything at that point after the budget passes, if there's a better way to educate the kids, it needs to come forward. So the best.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: All I'm saying is that this, this budget number of the 42 million was based on the four school re-aligned, and in that were the monies allocated for athletics. Our

[17134-140] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-02-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Any other comments? Seeing none we're going to move on to, action item number four, acceptance of $15,000 donation for Claremont Middle School. Eighth grade trip. The Jack and Dorothy burned foundation again. They have come tremendously.
TEXT> We cannot thank them enough. And so we're just asking you to make a motion for this. So the eighth graders typically go on a field trip every year. There's 106 middle schoolers. And what we're hoping to do is have them they put together Megan Fagan's as their representative, working with them as a teacher. And  they reached out to the Jack and Dorothy Byrne Foundation has generously over donated from what they did in the past. And so this would allow our students to take coach busses. They would allow them to help pay for the entrance fees to the Boston Museum of Science, and then hopefully have a class dinner to on the way back. And so with this, that would be the $15,000, which would cover not all of it, but a good chunk of the field trip. And so we're asking for a motion to accept this money for this field trip.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'd like to make a motion to accept with gratitude a $15,000 donation from the, The the Byrne Foundation for the middle school for a portion of the middle school

[17134-149] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-02-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: The curriculum that.
TEXT> Correct. So we were not quite ready for the calendar. We're hoping to bring that to the next meeting.  But we are looking at a motion for hopefully some of you saw  my updated there, report the curriculum that we're looking at for tiers two and three. Particularly we have wit and wisdom that's been approved and that's been implemented. This one for tier two instructions has been implemented. And that's the 95% phonics program. And then what we're looking for is specifically for the tier three. So it's a reading achievement program. And it's specifically looking at how to help students, including students with dyslexia in a very most intensive model. And so what we've been working really hard at is making sure that it's very clearly delineated what students in all of the tier levels get. And so everybody gets wit and wisdom, and then a certain group of students will then get the extra of the 95%, and then another certain students in that five to in that tiered response to intervention, you know, multi-tiered system of support, the most intensive needs of our students, we get something added on. And so this would be the 95%, a wrap, a model.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so with this program, it's research based, it's the science of reading. And it's been very well received. And we really want to be able to make sure they

[17134-150] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-02-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: 95%, and then another certain students in that five to in that tiered response to intervention, you know, multi-tiered system of support, the most intensive needs of our students, we get something added on. And so this would be the 95%, a wrap, a model.
TEXT> And so with this program, it's research based, it's the science of reading. And it's been very well received. And we really want to be able to make sure they have some more training opportunities coming up. And that's why we're bringing it to you now, to make sure that folks can have this opportunity to learn from their peers, their colleagues who've been using it as well,  and making sure that all of our students are meeting that and closing that achievement gap. And so our goal is to reduce those numbers of students who need in this part of this, you know, in specific instruction, but really to make sure we're supporting them, and again, includes a lot of students in that high needs category. So it's typically a 1 to 1 or a no more than 1 to 3 based intervention. And it's specifically for subsets of groups of students. So the links are in there about the, you know, the phonics program. And then they also the intervention part at the tier three level. So again, it's a very small set of students that would be receiving this instruction. We want to keep it separate because everybody's getting the wit and wisdom. And then it's adding on and then adding on. So  go ahead. What is.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The program? I didn't catch it. The name. Of.

[17134-186] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-02-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: You know, I honestly.
TEXT> With all the kids, like how do.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: You know it's specifically for kiddos working in this program?

[17134-194] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (handed the floor as 'Melissa' by | 2026-02-04
PREV> Unidentified board member: Test out of rap eventually.
TEXT> Yes. So yes. So our title department would be the using the tier two version. Okay. So kiddos not making the gains we want. We need something a little bit more intense. They would move to the 95 rap. And yes, when a child has met that met the goals within 95 rap, they potentially could go back to the tier two model. But nine times out of ten at that point, they have gained the skills that they need to be closer to grade level. Right. And that's the ultimate goal, is that they achieve those skills so that they can be working closer at grade level. Again, not for every child. You know, you have to just like with any, we have to match the profile of the learner to the profile of the program that we would be using. And this has been a this has been a good fit for many of our kiddos. I will say I will advocate that. I think it was one of the main reasons that Disney was able to act to exit Eight's status with the state for our identified population is because our kids were able to make that additional growth. And I think this this program certainly helped in that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Can you tell me whether the request for this program or what that was that come from the school, or did that come from the Dow.

[17134-196] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (handed the floor as 'Melissa' by | 2026-02-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Can you tell me whether the request for this program or what that was that come from the school, or did that come from the Dow.
TEXT> The school? So, last year when Mike. Grove, this would. When my teachers brought this on, we approached teachers at the other schools. They at that time weren't ready to to  move on with it, which is absolutely fine. It's not uncommon for one school to pilot something, find the bugs, find what works, and make a recommendation. And so as we began last year, finding less bugs and more positive things, and we're sharing that, others said, well, we you know, we're interested in that as well. The commitment to starting, like I said, with that professional development is significant. And so there is a process before you can start to use this program. So these were teachers that said we would like to add this to our toolkit. We would like this program to be an option for our children.  It was not top driven.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Good question. Move the I just I have one just a little concern. And this is this is not you but to Mr. Angel's point is that, it's one of

[17134-251] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-02-04
PREV> Loren Howard: What time of day or would these be a different times of day, like one of them lands on a weekend. The rest seem to be weekday.
TEXT> Usually on the weekend. We have around 10:00 in the morning. If it's in the evening, we would have it roughly around 530 6:00. Just anybody who can, let Mr. Kronborg know what dates they have available. Then we can just nail down a specific date and move forward. Yeah. At our next meeting, Miss Kronberg is going to bring forth her SOPs  and all the work that she has done on behalf of the board to kind of make the clerk position a very organized. It's been a she walked into a mess. She walked into nothing.  And we've worked together on this, and she's really excelled and she's bringing some form and structure to the role. And so we we're very eager to hear what she has, has done.  Also, we may have a petition warrant article, school district budget, public hearing on the 18th. Miss Cronenberg is aware that that needs to be posted. So,
NEXT> Noelle Kronberg: Has.

[17159-45] Gary Merchant | Citizen commenter, Ward 2; former state representative (self-identifie | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: And there is a link to the and there's another link to clarifying. So there has been information right on that first page under Latest News. So but thank you for bringing that up I appreciate it. Make sure we had it, Mister merchant okay.
TEXT> Thank you, Madam Chair. Gary Merchant, Ward one, Ward two show where I live it anymore.  Ward two, Claremont, New Hampshire. But I want to follow up on some of the things the speakers talked about. I went on the website as well, looking for information on article seven and article eight specifically. There's a lot of vertebrae there. I could not find anything that says about the pros or the cons of either one. The pros being what does it mean? The cons, what happens? What? What are the consequences? This is my concern is how it impacts the taxpayer. There's nothing there to say. What happens to the tax rate if article seven passes? What does that mean to Claremont taxpayers? There's nothing there to explain it to them. If article eight passes doesn't explain to people what the consequences are to the students. What I'm trying to get to is where is the public relations? I believe the school has someone in public relations. Why are we not using that resource to get the information out there to help inform the voters?
NEXT> Gary Merchant: So when you go into the voting booth, they make an intelligent choice of what they're trying to vote on. That's my concern. So I would say support it because

[17159-68] Noah Bosch | Citizen commenter, Ward 3; Stevens High School senior (self-identified | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Can you.
TEXT> Speak up? Oh, sorry. We're talking right now about a lot of stuff going on at the state level. But right now, as article seven is written, we will be accepting students in an open enrollment, like 10% of our student population. But students will not be able to leave Claremont. Is that correct?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: You can clarify that. Yeah.

[17159-79] April Woodman | Citizen commenter (0.4s onset fragment 80ms before her self-identifica | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: to make sure that education is better than it has been. I appreciate that, but sending students out does not help us improve what we're doing right now, too. So we just want to reiterate that. I recognize this woman over here first. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi. April. Woodman. I would like an assurance I know better than most how these RSA is read. I understand the special ed cost stays with the district. Understand there's a responsibility to get reimbursed for those costs. Which cause? Which cost us in the personnel department. There's a lot of costs that go along with kids that we receive. I would I know that you guys have policy review schedules and they're on the list and all this happy stuff. We know when we're voting. We hope that this passes. I understand why we'd want to limit the amount of money leaving. I want an assurance of what we're going to do for criteria for those children that we're willing to take in. I want to see the policy reviewed very, very quickly.  I want to see you heard Mr. Hemingway talk about how the law is is speaking to behaviors, and it's speaking to truancy, and it's speaking to a lot of things I want us to see. I want to see a very selective criteria  of what we can say no to. I don't want you to open the floodgates for up to 10% because we have the capacity. What do we have the capacity for?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there anyone else that would like to speak to article seven?

[17159-98] Unidentified public commenter | Citizen commenter — single mother of a Sugar River Valley Regional Tec | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you, thank you. Yes, this lady right here, she hasn't spoken yet. Thank you.
TEXT> Hey, I'm January king. I'm walking. I'm hoping to bring a slightly different demographic to the podium. I'm a single mom of a really terrific kid who found his voice here at the tech center. He's not a huge academic kid. He's not a sports kid. And I just worry that we're losing sight of the kids. We're talking a lot about money, and. But I think you're not talking a lot about possibilities and the possibilities that we do have some kids that are just going to go into the workforce. And if you cut the budget, you're cut in the bottom right out from underneath.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. This lady in the back has not spoken yet. In the back? Yes.

[17159-103] Matt Bean | Citizen commenter, Ward 1; teacher in Vermont (self-identified; ASR 'M | 2026-02-18
PREV> Matt Bean: House, that would help Hope and John, who are fiercely fighting for adequate education. If we directed that anger at that, I think the result would be an education funding being fair and equitable and people's anger being justified and taking care of that anger.
TEXT> So instead of instead of imposing a tax cap and strangling a struggling school district, that would be detrimental to the funding of the quality of the education of the children in Claremont. Let's direct that anger at state House and get people to help John and to help Hope get the funding that we deserve and that we need. Thank you. And to be honest, I'm hoping this will be my last public comment for a while.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So I just want to thank you for that statement to. So having been to a few Senate hearings now, I'm trying to help us, fix our reputation. It seems

[17159-122] Noah Bosch | Citizen commenter, Ward 3; Stevens High School senior (self-identified | 2026-02-18
PREV> Noah Bosch: using round numbers. So, the state only provides about 4800 of that. Again, I think this is slightly higher for Claremont, but we're just keeping it simple here. As I'm sure you all know, Claremont taxpayers are responsible for covering the rest of this cost.
TEXT> So this information was compiled from Reaching higher New Hampshire and verified across a couple of other sources. So one, school nurses, they are required in every school in New Hampshire but not covered by the state. Two transportation is again required, but not covered. There are also certain standards that must be met for facilities and building maintenance. Quite a few years ago, I don't quite remember the timeline. Stevens actually lost their accreditation because the building was not up to date, and there was an option on the ballot for the state to cover this cost, and it lost, or it was not voted in because of one vote.  So just remember that your vote matters. Teachers, aides and para are also required, especially in education special education programs, but again are not covered by the state. Technology and security equipment are not covered by the state. And honestly, this list could probably go on forever. I could stand up here for hours talking about the things that New Hampshire requires but does not fund. But I will leave this off with specialized curriculum requirements such as like evidence based literacy. Instruction is also not covered by the state. The state has never cared about providing students with an education that they deserve.  And I just hope that all of you do. The state won't set up our students for success. So we have to thank you for your time.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Thank.

[17159-130] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Would you like to speak? Sure.
TEXT> I just would like to thank Representative Damon and several others. Last week,  Mr. Angel and I had a chance to go to Concord to a hearing, and it was actually what Noel was referring to. So I appreciate it. And I appreciate you and Kieran speaking up as our students representing Stevens High School. So I hope everybody is getting a view of our students who we are very educated. Students are doing great things too. So don't just judge at all by numbers. But we were able to go and present story, the scenario that happened when we lost the vote by one. And so we tried to go back in. Mr. Angel can add more details to it to ask more ability. With a reentered that option of looking at the funding that we lost and could have used to help some, you know, pay off some of the deficits of other things, it did not pass, it did not go through. But I appreciate if we don't ask, we don't try. And so I appreciate your advocacy of students to and just to keep that up because it's exactly you who are going to spread our message. And I appreciate everybody representatives y helping us to spread forward, you know, the message of what we're spending and just to advocate for our students.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So I really appreciate that. So thank you. And Mr. Angel did a great job week trying to share our case. And although it wasn't supported at least it was

[17159-145] Bonnie Miles | Citizen commenter, Ward 2; former School Board member (self-identified | 2026-02-18
PREV> Bonnie Miles: believe in you, and I'm going to vote no, because this is just a bunch of Bologna that's going to mess somebody up because they're not going to vote the right way. Maybe. The other thing is, I just I'm sorry I came in late.
TEXT> I was another place. Couldn't be here earlier. And I did miss something about Disney and Maple. And, you know, maybe they're going to be closing down. And I just thought I was going to pass out over here. And I heard that. I just can't believe that because we have the Bluff school empty now. And what's going on with the one in Maple Avenue. But I think that's gone. I'm not sure. And so now we're going to figure out what are we going to do with that school. We got to sell it. Who's going to buy it now all of a sudden we got this note and Maple who's going to buy those. We're going to be stuck with this stuff. We need to be more prepared. We're not prepared enough. And I agree with you, Don. I agree with you completely because I think that what we should be doing is working with all the poor communities in this state and get this problem resolved, because right now,  the rich folks in Concord and all their rich communities, nobody is paying for our kids. They are stealing from our poor kids to give to ours. And our governor is the lady at the top, and she's doing nothing about it. So we need to get to work on that.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Thank you.

[17159-169] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Loren Howard: So okay.
TEXT> All right. Thank you. Next item on the agenda is citizen comments. From the floor to non-agenda items for citizens. Comments for policy BEDH Public comments are an opportunity for the public to provide input into the board. Board members are without the authority to answer spontaneously on behalf of the board. Board response. If anyone will be deferred pending full board consideration, individuals wishing to speak to an agenda item will have an opportunity to do so after the board closes. Discussion.
NEXT> Unidentified board member: Excuse me. We have a meeting going on. If you could move the conversation to the hallway.

[17159-178] Sherry Williams | Citizen commenter, Ward 1 (self-identified at segs 241 and 358) | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes.
TEXT> Sherry Williams, Ward one. Regarding special education, I know that this is a year where our special educators are  stretched thin, just like all of the rest of everyone in the school district. I do just want to give a really positive word for Miss Rumble.  I'm not even really sure exactly what her title is, but she's related to special education. I probably had the best IEP meeting I've ever had  in my child's education at Stevens. It was incredibly detailed. It was exactly what I hoped for for goals. I had almost gone into the meeting thinking that I would just say, this isn't working for him, so let's just drop it.  She was prepared and it was everything that would build hope in our special education program. So whatever you guys are doing, even under the constraints we're facing this year, I just wanted you to know that there are really good things happening in our special education. I also want to put another word out, regarding summer school, regarding credit recovery. I know that even as we are looking at,  are looking at what our kids are taking for school next year, what credits are they short?
NEXT> Sherry Williams: You know, any of our students who are currently receiving an r e we are being met with the summer school is is may not be an option. So you

[17159-179] Sherry Williams | Citizen commenter, Ward 1 (self-identified at segs 241 and 358) | 2026-02-18
PREV> Sherry Williams: happening in our special education. I also want to put another word out, regarding summer school, regarding credit recovery. I know that even as we are looking at, are looking at what our kids are taking for school next year, what credits are they short?
TEXT> You know, any of our students who are currently receiving an r e we are being met with the summer school is is may not be an option. So you know, unless they're getting a 70 that summer school might not be an option. It's part of everyday conversation. And if credit recovery is not going to be an option for our student body, I ask the school board or whoever is responsible for this decision to move the passing grade back down to a 65, because it would not be fair to set such high, in my opinion, to set such high of an expectation when at least growing up a 65 was passing and and for many students, passing is the goal, passing is the goal.  And if we cannot help them accomplish that goal by providing credit recovery, we need to change our rules and and allow passing to be 65. Thank you.
NEXT> Noelle Kronberg: Thank you.

[17159-241] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-02-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: if there's any way of eliminating some of the early release days instead of making full time PD. I mean, full time professional development days. We know it as a burden for a family, so we're trying to see if we can make that work.
TEXT> And working within the CBA's for all the unions and things, but trying to make it sure we have enough hours for the students we have to comply with, obviously, the Department of  Hours. So there's a question about days and hours. And so we typically will go by hours and not days. And so obviously we have to meet a certain minimum days. But we're looking at the hours of instruction. And so just hopefully by the next meeting we'll have a final draft presented to you. But just want to get a first glance at where we're at and if there's any feedback before that, feel free to give us some feedback. But we were hoping to bring a final draft on March 4th to you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Anticipate any changes beyond this?

[17159-294] Noelle Kronberg | School Board Clerk | 2026-02-18
PREV> Loren Howard: That's three locations.
TEXT> Yeah. Yep. Yeah. And then I send the public notices to Jen to go in the Valley News. When we're doing that for the sake of time, I'm not going to read all of these. I'll just kind of go to each one and share a little bit. But this is just a quick like for each thing. So for agendas, this is this is what I do. This is something both the public notices and this or something that I hadn't done before. Chelsea did all of this. Again, the agendas are a team effort. It's not something that can be just on the clerk. And I think he would work all of to help and patience with putting this together. And someone else that's new that I think became a little more streamlined was the links in the documents is a brilliant idea because again, Chelsea was like creating one folder that was for the board that had documents in it, and then once it went live to the public. It was she handed me copies of all of that into that document. And the public kind of had to know, like, I have to go looking in this folder where now it just gets put there, the links are there. We find out sometimes links are not live, which is totally fine. And if that does happen, like just put it in that share request and that emails me directly.
NEXT> Noelle Kronberg: And then I know like, oh, that's not in the right place or I didn't change the permissions on that, but it is set up. So if it's in the

[17159-453] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: So that's my motion. If there's anybody that wants to second if nobody's second time. Guys. I think my motion is self-explanatory. And unless anybody has any questions, we can move the question. Yes, Lauren.
TEXT> A tiny note would just be, if the health inspector was concerned about it. I think if there are students who are going to be using this stuff and there's genuinely mold as described in some of these, I think even if we were to sell this in the future, where we make a different decision about  one of these buildings, it's a small investment that I think is worth the help to the students, just for a year. But that's that's just a my thoughts on getting, you know, pushing them further.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If there's no if there's no bridge or if it would put the health of the students at risk, I would I mean, that's part of the motion as I,

[17159-454] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Loren Howard: the future, where we make a different decision about one of these buildings, it's a small investment that I think is worth the help to the students, just for a year. But that's that's just a my thoughts on getting, you know, pushing them further.
TEXT> If there's no if there's no bridge or if it would put the health of the students at risk, I would I mean, that's part of the motion as I, as the language is that we just don't authorize it today. Pending assess further assessment from the health sector to see if they could give us if we could do remedial activity that would provide safety to the students, but not require us to invest in something that we may not be using long term.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So we're voting on your.

[17159-500] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: So no second read right to board approval. Yep. Any discussion? Seeing? None. All in favor of adopting policy FAA as written without going to second read, say I any opposed? Any abstentions? Policy is adopted. Thank you.
TEXT> The second policy tonight is policy JFABD admission of homeless children and unaccompanied youth. We had previously, adopted this policy in November of 2025. Miss Porter, our social worker and McKinney Vento person, requested there be minor updates and the minor updates were in your copy. One is a reference to policy E HB and then we added a sentence at the end. I'm on the wrong policy. We added a sentence that says that Claremont Public Schools are committed to protecting confidentiality of these students housing information. So we recommend that this be adopted tonight. It's a minor revision.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'll make a motion to. Move this policy JFABD to adoption tonight.

[17159-505] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (recognized by the Chair as 'Mr. Sprague' at segs  | 2026-02-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Where they put their head at night.
TEXT> Yeah. And who's we? We used to call it the old maid card. I mean, who who actually is the district of liability for these students. So has, has has a lawyer looked at this, is this an approved. Who has looked at this besides.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Our McKinney Vento person? Yeah. Me and the policy. So committee, do you want it to go to an attorney? This is the the sample from the New Hampshire School

[17168-20] January King | Public commenter, Ward 1 — single parent of a tech-center student (sel | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Guess this lady right here. She hasn't spoken yet. Thank you.
TEXT> Hey, I'm January king, I'm warden. You want me to bring a slightly different demographic to the podium?  I'm a single mom  of a really terrific kid who found his voice here at the tech center. He's not a huge academic kid. He's not a sports kid. And I just worry that we're losing sight of the kids. We're talking a lot about money, and. But I think you're not talking a lot about possibilities and the possibilities that we do have some kids that are just going to go into the workforce. And if you cut the budget, you're cut in the bottom right out from underneath.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. This lady in the back has not spoken yet. In the back? Yes.

[17168-27] Matt Bean | Public commenter, Ward 1 (self-identified at the podium; ASR 'Matt Bea | 2026-02-18
PREV> Matt Bean: House, that would help Hope and John, who are fiercely fighting for adequate education. If we directed that anger at that, I think the result would be an education funding being fair and equitable, and people's anger being justified and taking care of that anger.
TEXT> So instead of instead of imposing a tax cap and strangling a struggling school district, that would be detrimental to the funding of the quality of the education of the children in Claremont. Let's direct that anger at state House and get people to help John and to help Hope get the funding that we deserve and that we need. Thank you. And to be honest, I'm hoping this will be my last public comment for a while.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So I just want to thank you for that statement to. So having been to a few Senate hearings now, I'm trying to help us, fix our reputation. It seems

[17168-33] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 — continues into the next segment, which | 2026-02-18
PREV> Ken Lownie: I speak loudly.
TEXT> Well, it's for the kids, for the. People in the.
NEXT> Ken Lownie: Audience TV. I really don't care about the TV, but. I do care about you folks. So why is that? And I'm sorry to be so direct, but it's to

[17168-47] Nora Shane | Public commenter, Ward 3 — Stevens High School senior (self-identified | 2026-02-18
PREV> Nora Shane: using round numbers. So, the state only provides about 4800 of that. Again, I think this is slightly higher for Claremont, but we're just keeping it simple here. As I'm sure you all know, Claremont taxpayers are responsible for covering the rest of this cost.
TEXT> So this information was compiled from Reaching higher New Hampshire and verified across a couple of other sources.  So one, school nurses, they are required in every school in New Hampshire but not covered by the state. Two transportation is again required, but not covered.  There are also certain standards that must be met for facilities and building maintenance.  Quite a few years ago, I don't quite remember the timeline. Stevens actually lost their accreditation because the building was not up to date, and there was an option on the ballot for the state to cover this cost, and it lost  or it was not voted in because of one vote. So just remember that your vote matters.  Teachers, aides and paramedics are also required, especially in education  special education programs, but again, are not covered by the state. Technology and security equipment are not covered by the state. And honestly, this list could probably go on forever. I could stand up here for  hours talking about the things that New Hampshire requires but does not fund. But I will leave this off with specialized curriculum requirements such as like evidenced based literacy. Instruction is also not covered by the state. The state has never cared about providing students with an education that they deserve, and I just hope that all of you do.  The state won't set up our students for success, so we have to thank you for your time.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Damon.

[17168-54] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (John Cloutier refers to 'Superintendent | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Would you. Like to speak?
TEXT> Sure. I just would like to. And thank Representative Damon and several others.  Last week, Mr. Angel and I had a chance to go to Concord to a hearing, and it was actually what Noel was referring to. So I appreciate it. And I appreciate you and Karen speaking up as our students representing Stevens High School. So I hope everybody is getting a view of our students who we are very educated students who are doing great things too. So don't just judge at all by numbers.  But we were able to go and present story, the scenario that happened when we lost the vote by one. And so we tried to go back in. Mr. Angel can add more details to it to ask more  ability with a reinterpretation. That option of looking at the funding that we lost  and could have used to help some pay off some of the deficits of other things. It did not pass, it did not go through. But I appreciate if we don't ask, we don't try.  And so I appreciate your advocacy of students to and just to keep that up, because it's exactly you who are going to spread our message. And I appreciate everybody, Representatives y  helping us to spread forward, you know, the message of what we're spending and just to advocate for our students.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So I really appreciate that. So thank you. And Mr. Angel did a great job week trying to share our case. And although it wasn't supported at least it was

[17168-70] Bonnie Miles | Public commenter, Ward 2 — former School Board member (self-identified | 2026-02-18
PREV> Bonnie Miles: in you, and I'm going to vote no, because this is just a bunch of Bologna that's going to mess somebody up because they're not going to vote the right way. May be, the other thing is, I just I'm sorry I came in late.
TEXT> I was another place going to be here earlier, and I did miss something about does not and maple  and you know, maybe they're going to be closing down and I just thought I was going to pass out over here. And I  heard that. I just can't believe that because we have the Bluff school empty now. And  what's going on with the one in Maple Avenue. But I think that's gone. I'm not sure. And so now we're going to figure out what are we going to do with that school. We got to sell it. Who's going to buy it now all of a sudden we got this note and Maple who's going to buy those. We're going to be stuck with this stuff. We need to be more prepared. We're not prepared enough. And I agree with you, Don. I agree with you completely because I think that what we should be doing is working with all the poor communities in this state and get this problem resolved, because right now, the rich folks in Concord and all the rich communities, nobody is paying for our kids. They are stealing from our poor kids to give to ours. And our governor is the lady at the top, and she's doing nothing about it. So we need to get to work on that. Thank you.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I appreciate the support in that part of it, too. I just want to add and add on to what Mr. Chamberlain said. By cutting the money with the budget

[17201-69] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: done on a computer three times a year. And it adjusts to where the student is performing at the moment to find that sweet spot for next steps in instruction. It is animated, and we find that kids either love that or they hate that.
TEXT> So,  that can go either way. So I also wanted to show, and I apologize, they don't copy as well as they do into a PowerPoint.  The  this is actually right from an I ready report. One of the things about I read is that can give you a variety of different reports. This is school wide data in the area of reading for that mid-year assessment. And it also gives you, as you see most recent. And then you see fall underneath that so that you're able to compare and look at growth between the two assessment periods. The assessment periods need to be about 16 weeks apart. So if you take a look that  bottom the the lower of the two lines, that's our fall assessment. You can see in green. Green is where we want to be. We want less red more green. We had 23% of our students in the area of reading who were,  early on grade level or mid-year above grade level. Yellow is one grade level below red, or the two variants of red are below grade level. So what you want to see in this, you want to see those from the fall bar.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: You want to see red percentages go down. You want to see that yellow percentage possibly go down. Sometimes you want to see an increase because reds are moving to

[17201-97] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (sentence continuation across a c | 2026-03-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: And and, do educators talk to parents about how they can help?
TEXT> Yep. Yep. And certain reports we can generate  will give those ideas of things that can be done as well. Okay. Yeah, absolutely. The other piece I want to point out that  parents are certainly a part of, but teachers are key to it as our students clearly is goal setting.  And in the younger grades, goal setting might be around test taking behaviors like I'm going to try it even if it feels hard to me versus a fifth grader who can actually understand their score and say,  for example, I will give every kiddo an annual target to meet their looking. Each kiddo will get an annual growth goal, an amount.  Kiddos also get us what's called a stretch goal stretch growth goal, meaning there below where they need to. But what's the trajectory to get them?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And the parents are aware of that?

[17201-121] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: bands. We say that's great. But those red bands concern us. So we had for example in fifth grade 50%. Excuse me, 46%. At the beginning of the year, we're now up to 50%. And you say, oh my gosh, did kids lose reading skills?
TEXT> They did not lose skills. The benchmark increases. The text gets more complex. The words per minute increases. So the expectation increase increases from beginning of year assessment to midyear to end of year. So those are kiddos we would mostly want to  they're not they might be picking up the skills, but they're not picking them up at the same rate. You also, in all honesty, could have a kiddo who stays in the red because they were so deficit in the beginning. They've made tremendous growth. They just haven't exited that yet. Okay, so this is one way we can look at it again.  Grade wise, the  teachers, for example, using this report could look at and say, okay, we spend about 15 minutes a day working on these phonemic awareness skills. Boy do we need to increase. Increase that based on what our what our scores are telling us or. Wow, almost, you know, huge percentage of our kids seem to have that. We can decrease that a little bit and spend more time on an area that we're weaker in math. I ready? Same thing. Same exact format that we talked about before.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Our math scores are lower. We are in year two of implementing a new math curriculum program. So in the fall we had 14% who were on or above, and

[17201-125] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: not as intensely as we would like, but we are seeing growth again. 2% growth. We get it. You know, that sounds great, but it's only a couple of students. We're happy about those kind of students, but we want way more than 2% growth.
TEXT> We'll take the next one. So then we get to right. We've looked at this as school data. We've looked at it in domain data for curriculum questions. And now our teams really need to start thinking where should the majority of our resources go? Based on when we look at this data. Grade level wise for example, how many title one teachers should we be devoting to this grade level as opposed to this grade level, right, in those foundational levels? How can we add tier one interventions to our day when we say the word intervention? Lots of times people think it's just during our intervention block, which is called win what I need,  what we work every day to realize is that within our math core, within our 60 minute math core, we can have that's our tier one instruction time. We can be making small interventions there. And how do we do that based on what the data is telling us we need, and what can homework look like to assist with more practice? Right. Where do kids need that most? Practice. We know  there's homework is clearly a hot topic.  What we know is its intent truly should be for practice, and kids need to be practicing in the areas they need to.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: So now we get to kiddos after all that, right? And here's what I did was cut and paste a sample of what we refer to as our data grid.

[17201-126] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: to assist with more practice? Right. Where do kids need that most? Practice. We know there's homework is clearly a hot topic. What we know is its intent truly should be for practice, and kids need to be practicing in the areas they need to.
TEXT> So now we get to kiddos after all that, right? And here's  what I did was cut and paste a sample of what we refer to as our data grid. And after every benchmark  assessment, our teams get together in formal data meetings and we go kiddo by kiddo. And we've entered this data into this grid prior to that. And we go line by line and we say, okay, student number one, let's take a look at their data. What do you notice? What does that student need for intervention. And we start to form some intervention groups based on need. And then we start to think about if you go to the next slide we start to make those groupings and we say, okay, George, Judy and Elmo, here's their instructional focus. And we've worked really hard. We're not there yet by any means, but we've worked really  very diligently to get a lot closer of a targeted instructional focus. Instead of saying,  phonics. We say, okay, these are the phonics patterns. In this six weeks, we're going to take six weeks and we're going to intervene on these skills. What you don't see apologize. If I made it any smaller, you all would have needed stronger glasses.  Would be the exit criteria from that group. So our intervention will be successful.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Kids will be able to meet that instructional focus if they can do this. And that's the exit criteria. We talk about the frequency of their intervention. And then we

[17201-130] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Unidentified speaker: Right.
TEXT> We can't teach them if they're always dismissed 20 minutes early. We can't dismiss them if they're always 40 minutes late. And so again, this is just another,  barrier that we're trying as a school to embrace. And I have to say, in this area, Scott Maple is a gift.  He is all he checks in with us daily to see who who he can be assisting us with, because he understands this more than anyone. The impact of behavior. Here's another source bot. When you have a very disruptive student in the classroom, it's not just that student who's suffering the learning of all suffers and and without some significant behavior supports in some places  where impacting the learning of all kids. And that's just that's just reality sometimes, but it's a consideration we have to take into account. Lack of team meeting time this year. I would add this year to that, because we don't have our traditional  team time that we've been having, and that's when we have a lot of these conversations about pacing, about assessments, about looking at student work together.  Lack of behavior support we talked about. And then we always have to be mindful.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And this is not a negative slam at any one of a taught versus learned mindset. Well, I taught that. Why didn't they get it as opposed to they haven't

[17201-135] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (uncertain - merged male cluster; homework questio | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: to look at both. Before we can have proficiency, we have to have progress. And focus and commitment are key. And so how do we maintain that and identify those areas that that deserve that. And I'm happy to excuse me to answer any questions.
TEXT> You mentioned. Homework.  Homework. Used to be my day a few years ago.  Everybody got the same assignment. Is homework now being targeted towards where you're seeing areas of that kids need to make improvements?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I, I'm seeing many, many different approaches to it. And we're playing with many defined kind of where do we see the best bang for our buck, for lack of

[17201-189] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: it's not the same person, can say, oh, that's something I can try. So yep, this didn't work. So I started using this approach. And that's where we're really building the toolkits of each other is during those conversations that team times really, really important.
TEXT> I do notice as well that  we should expect that there's a lot of growth in K through one, and then we really seem to stagnate and go kind of nowhere. What and what what's your gut instinct on why that happens? And that kind of leads into my next question is what do you need? Is it more bodies? Is it more time? Is it more targeted professional development? Are you happy with the programs and curriculum that we have right now? Do you think that they meet the needs of our students?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I would always defer to teachers on that. I'd offer input as well, but teachers should have the most important say there. I will say when you get up to.

[17201-195] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue School (ASR renders the surname 'Blunt') | 2026-03-04
PREV> Unidentified speaker: Thank you.
TEXT> Okay, I was asked to keep this to ten minutes. I  had a very. Large item. I had. A very large presentation. Another. Part to it coming. So I have I had. A very large presentation. I've cut it down just to a. Few pages. From what I had. So know. Who you are. I know who I am, and I was listening to the I was listening to carry keeping keep it brief. We'll get to more pieces later. So  so I've got just a few slides to share with you. A lot of what,  Melissa echoed at  we do a lot of the very same things,  but let me just start out I had this all prepared. The work I'm going to share with you tonight represents the work of multiple teams at Maple, including grade level teachers, special educators, specialists  and support staff. I'm like Melissa here. Among the takeaways tonight, I hope it will be evident how much collaboration happens across our school community, in service to our goal of meeting the needs of all of our students. We were asked tonight to share some of our mid-year academic data, but also to give you a window into how we use data to make decisions and shape instruction every day of the school year. Why helping us plan for the future. So,  this first slide,  I cut mine down basically. You see,  these are the overall results of grade level to.
NEXT> Mark Blount: Thank you, Melissa. Early grade level and above in the fall and winter, early grade level and above at each of the grade levels, both in math and in reading.

[17201-198] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue School (ASR renders the surname 'Blunt') | 2026-03-04
PREV> Mark Blount: team cut that number to nearly in half by mid-year. So the important note is that it is a team. So when I talk about team, it's the grade level teachers, the title one teachers, the special educators, the service providers and the pair educators.
TEXT> That's the team, right? That we wrap our wrap our  hands around our each of our kids. Also on this slide,  four of the grades K, one, two and four increase the number of students meeting or exceeding the benchmark expectations. And then,  just to note that, as Melissa pointed out, just as her teachers do at Disney, as along with all of  the service providers, pairs and title one teachers,  all grades  meet to discuss results, adjust instruction  in particular, substantial  adjustments  in some of our recent meetings have been made  in grades three and five. Classrooms to address student needs with the support of title one teachers, and with a operation and support of other professionals across the building. So it's a team effort is what I'm trying to say, that all hands are on deck, just like what happens  at Disney. Our  and then going on to the next slide.  As Melissa noted  with her grid of order and targeted targeting needs, we do the same thing. So this is kind of a progress report of, you know, I took out the student names in this one, but, you know, just focuses on what are we going to do. How are we going to  make adjustments to help that kiddo reach proficiency. So  it's just an example of  of how  we use the data to develop groups based on focus areas,  and providing a metric for evaluating progress.
NEXT> Mark Blount: So that's just a piece there. The next one is another piece that we do use kind of gives. It gives you an insight of the kinds of decisions that

[17201-241] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (sentence onset clipped into an adjacent cluster) | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr.. Mr..
TEXT> Well. One of my things is all the things that we can do to improve the school and the education without spending a penny. And one of the things I. Think the kids come to school. Yeah.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It was too easy okay.

[17201-256] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: may help more decision making come Tuesday for voting days. You're just again a reminder of voting day on Tuesday, March 10th. So we appreciate your patience as we're working through the calendar. We want to get it to be the best calendar presentation possible.
TEXT> So we'll bring that to you the next time. And thank you again to Mark and Melissa for the presentation for the middle of the year data. We'll keep working on the CMS and the, you know, Stephen's High School as well.  So just one quick thing that I'd like to bring in Jason Bonneville and I, who was not, unfortunately, here tonight but had a chance to meet this quickly came in yesterday. We had a student, former student reach out to us. And so her name is Doctor Erin Truesdell. And so she's a class of Stevens High School from 2015. And she  has a PhD, and she is a professor at the new Jersey Institute of Technology. And so she is doing research study, and she wanted to reach out to us. And I appreciate that. And so she's looking for  inclusion of our students into a research study that she's doing with the National Science Foundation.  And so I just went in there, I just before we engage in this, I just want to make sure the board knows what's happening. And so what she's looking to do is having some students.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And she felt this. She has more experience, she felt than some of our other students access to just from her own family for technology. But she does see and

[17201-257] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: study that she's doing with the National Science Foundation. And so I just went in there, I just before we engage in this, I just want to make sure the board knows what's happening. And so what she's looking to do is having some students.
TEXT> And she felt this. She has more experience, she felt than some of our other students  access to just from her own family for technology. But she does see and she saw some of her colleagues struggle or classmates struggle as she was going through school  with just basic technology at the early level, she said she was privileged enough to have some more access than most kids. But because one of the things we're struggling with is where do we teach? Like the typing skills and the basic things we know it's a standard. We're working on our 21st century standards for the students,  but we are like, where is the best place to do it? So she's targeting actually a video game. So here's those parents of one thing. Her PhD actually is working with gaming. And so she did it. She succeeded in being able to take that learning part. And then also her interest in things too. So what she's proposing with the National Science Foundation is a grant, and it's working for students in the age or age ranges from 9 to 12. And what they would do, it's similar if you've ever heard of it's a game called Minecraft, and so it has specifically  some tailored for that platform.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: That's what she's proposing. And so the students would have a chance. So what she's looking to do is engage our a couple of our teachers and some students. If

[17201-258] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: is a grant, and it's working for students in the age or age ranges from 9 to 12. And what they would do, it's similar if you've ever heard of it's a game called Minecraft, and so it has specifically some tailored for that platform.
TEXT> That's what she's proposing.  And so the students would have a chance. So what she's looking to do is engage our a couple of our teachers and some students. If this grant goes through  and they would have some opportunity to do some after school time about 1 to 3 times for that study time in the year.  And she would pay the teacher to kind of supervise the students and just to check to make sure they're on task, things like that. And it's really about typing skills and basic technology skills. And so it's a game platform. It would be after school,  and this is the pilot part of it. But just to see and I think this was really exciting. So Jason and I looked we looked at it from I had Jason come in from the technology platform. Part of it, can we do it? Our one concern, which I told Jason we wouldn't have for a while, we still have like a year and something to figure out. It's going to be a work in progress. She's putting it through as the grant, so it's still dependent on when she can get the grant. But we wanted to make sure before we move forward.  What was because it would allow our students access to Minecraft, and we want to make sure it's limited and it's not available during the school day.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And, you know, we're not necessarily pushing that. But as she's testing this program and this would be something available if it goes through to be accessible, just like other

[17201-260] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: And so to equities it to be including rural sections. So what we're looking to see is if anybody would make a motion so that we would be able to just have her look through. So it's obviously she still has to get the grant.
TEXT> And then they still have to do if you're familiar with research, they still have to do or they have to have forms that fell out there saying, yes, you agree to be a subject and the subject is a video game. It's not like they're being tested with like brain skills and things like that in terms of, you know,  you know, major things impact on it. But  if anybody was opposed to it, just to let us know.  But we wanted to check in. It was a great reach out. It was lovely to talk to her, and it was so nice to see our student future years. So she's been  loving Claremont from the past. So she still thinks of us in new Jersey. And it was great. Shout out from the new Jersey Institute of Technology from this professor. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague.

[17201-271] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: And she's great. Obviously.
TEXT> Yes. She's a great example of our students and you know, where they go. And I said I felt it would be a great use to because then some of our current students could be able to see some other people who've been in their shoes. They've been in Claremont, and this is where they're going. And so they're showing. And so again, I laugh because we always talk about like video games not getting you anywhere. It's like, yes, you can make a career out of it. And she is. And so she's using her PhD for good  and trying to make sure it's educational technology and not just, you know, something that's mindless and things to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Howard.

[17201-282] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Here we go. No worries.
TEXT> That's so unfortunate. So anyone with link? There you go. I apologize for that. I thought I vetted it last night to to make sure it was all set, so please. Yes, definitely. Take a look at it. The research is great. And, you know, I'm bringing it to you because I really feel strongly it's a great resource for our students.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So any further discussion from the board all in favor of approving the motion I. Know abstentions. Motion passes.

[17201-376] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sure. I'll make a motion that we move BBF to adoption.
TEXT> I'll second that motion. Mr. Madden second. Oh, Mr. Manuel second.  We're open to discussion. I just had one question  about under number. See the responsibilities of the student government. And who would be responsible for  supporting these students. Like, item number two, is that any public high school student in the district could the student member. So who who in the who in the who in the organization is supporting the students doing these.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Right now, as Doctor Harrington of the high school is actually we envisioned it could be unless you have another plan for that. Sure. That's how we envision.

[17201-383] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: So we're talking about the date to fill in.
TEXT> There's a date and it's an elected position. It's elected by the student body and not appointed by. In the past, we've had our student representatives appointed by the principal or other individuals in the school. And so this kind of I think it had language that it was student members will be chosen by a majority vote of high school student body under the principal, blah, blah. So that would be a different process. And then we would have to determine if this is our policy, when that election would occur and what the term would look like.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I think, well, it says one year term.

[17201-474] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: We. Could just echo to. We agreed that parents should be involved in aware and make sure that they're knowing what's happening is exactly. So we will make sure that they're informed and ideally ahead of time too. So.
TEXT> So what is it? Because I, I know, I hear I hear what you have to say, Frank, but I don't like I still don't like that parents aren't notified or don't give consent to their child's positions. Search.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The problem is if if a student has a weapon on them or they have illegal.

[17201-477] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Can we confiscate that? The stuff without I mean, what's the.
TEXT> What's the original version said that you can't react to the student at all until the parent is there. So school as a school administrator, you don't need probable cause. You only need reasonable, reasonable suspicion to conduct a search. Your because of in loco parentis you. You have custody of that child. So you have rights that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I see.

[17241-28] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (convenes the organizational meeting and | 2026-03-18
PREV> Multiple: To the. Flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands. One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
TEXT> So I would like to formally introduce our two new board members, Mr. Don Lavallée and Mr. Brian Rapp. So congratulations. We appreciate your service and we look forward to having you on our board. Unfortunately, tonight we were supposed to introduce our student board members. They are not able to come in to work commitments,  but we will be having Myles Sheehan and Lily Clarke, our student board members from the high school, be joining us at the next board meeting. So we welcome them when they come back in. Are we ready to look at the election of a board chair.
NEXT> Noelle Kronberg: Over electing a.

[17241-132] Mimi Rhines | Public commenter, Ward 1; district staff member and SREA union buildin | 2026-03-18
PREV> Mimi Rhines: interview committee will be one building principal. No offense or admin team at all, but that is a travesty. How do you not have any other staff, student? Teacher? Parent? Anyone representative on a hiring board to decide who is going to run our district?
TEXT> You guys are acting like you were hiring some far away CEO to run a corporation, not someone who is going to come in and help shape students futures and be working hand in hand with the school community and the public in general. Given how much this process has been done, has been done shrouded in secrecy. You could hire someone who is as transparent as they come, but you know what? They'll be coming in and facing a massive uphill battle of having to earn our trust and respect, because the group of people who probably have the least amount  of trust has appointed them. I urge you to slow this search down and involve the public and staff and thoughtful, meaningful ways. The district as a whole deserves that much. After the year of decisions we've had to contend with this board making. Thank you.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Excuse me. For a second. Mimi, there's a school board policy that specifically talks about, the union and employees. Those if you have a complaint, you need to address the

[17241-146] Cassandra Edwards | Public commenter, Ward 3; Disnard School teacher and SREA building rep | 2026-03-18
PREV> Michelle Springer: higher paying position when we already don't have enough to pay subs in special ed services and paraprofessionals that are needed, so that I just don't understand why we're rushing this all of a sudden, and why we're not involving the right people. Thank you.
TEXT> Sandra Edwards, Ward three I am a parent, a citizen also.  I am the building. Redford does not. I am perplexed by the update that was posted on the website. I was unaware, as I'm sure if I was unaware, having followed this very closely, others were to that. There was also going to be an educational leader on top of our executive director. That was in the wording on the website. And I will say our our district is in dire need of some educational leadership. I have been with this district since 2021. We have been through two superintendents, 3 or 4. I've lost track curriculum directors. We need we need a captain that's going to steer the ship and keep it on a one course. If we want to see improvement in student outcomes, having somebody coming in and saying, we're doing this now, no, we're doing this now. No, we're doing this now is not beneficial for our students, for our teachers, for our community. That needs to be the priority. I understand if you want an executive director to make sure the hard work that's been done in that office is kept up and maintained, but the educational leader needs to be a high priority  of this board.
NEXT> Cassandra Edwards: Right now, we have some big changes coming, and we need someone who can be in the front saying, this is how it's going to work. Solving problems, not just

[17241-155] Amanda Barton | Public commenter, Ward 2; parent (teacher in another district) | 2026-03-18
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> Hello. Amanda Barton, Ward two.  I also would like to speak just a little bit about, the last bit there. I actually want to say thank you. I think it was nice to hear that the staff actually heard about some decisions before the public. Okay. Not that I'm part of the staff, but to hear the staff was able to prepare themselves before they get blindsided at a meeting. I think that's something we should really try to do moving forward. So, for example, the staff was told that there is going to be a real alignment for Desert and Maple and what grades that might look like. And I think that's a really wonderful process. Moving forward, if you have big decisions that are going to impact people's lives, it might be a good idea to talk to your staff, the people who are working with the children, because many reasons they can bring forward things that you may not know are problems that you can then discuss at the board meeting. So the more input you can get from people before, the better you can make informed decisions and a less proactive kind of coming back on decisions, if that makes sense. So I do thank you. I'm happy to hear that the staff heard about those somewhat decisions so far. I'm still a little concerned about realignment for next year.
NEXT> Amanda Barton: Not because I don't think it's not a good idea. I think that there's a lot of good things that can come from this. We've talked about it before, having

[17241-157] Amanda Barton | Public commenter, Ward 2; parent (teacher in another district) | 2026-03-18
PREV> Amanda Barton: children who are so excited. They're always been in the same school and they will not be in the same school, right. So there's a lot of like feelings, a lot of grief about this change. So if we have to change, let us grieve.
TEXT> Let us move on. Let there be some real good things that come from it. But then don't ask us to change again and grieve again, because we're not going to see the benefits of that change in that realignment. If we just change it again, we're going to have to look further out and further out to see what type of changes that have actually impacted student learning. I won't be making that clear and that my that's my biggest concern. So thank you for the board and your work, and I really hope moving forward, everyone kind of gets their information ahead of time so that they can make educated decisions. And we don't have to have lots of reactive feelings. Thanks, guys.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Excuse me. In the future, if you have a concern, there's a school board policy that requires you to go to the superintendent.

[17241-208] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: I appreciate you stepping forward there. And then everyone just I really appreciate your voting efforts. So we had a large turnout. There was 28% of the Claremont voters, having recently been some other meetings that was actually unprecedented in many areas of New Hampshire.
TEXT> And so they really appreciated that everybody stepped forward as much as I did. You did your civic duty, so we appreciate it regardless of how people voted. So we appreciate your support. Again, just to reiterate, so hopefully at our next meeting, our student representatives, Miles Sheen and Lily Clark will be back. And so they will have a seat at the table. They will be with us for the school board meetings and be able to share some student updates and what's happening within the schools, and we look forward to welcoming them back to their meeting. So  hopefully on April 1st.  I know April Fool's joke there. They'll be back. So just a quick update. Yesterday I went to the New Hampshire School Administrators Association meeting in conquered. The objective of the day was to learn about more upcoming legislative priorities. I know Representative Damon mentioned some, so I'll give you some more reports about that. But there's 300 educational bills in front of the Senate right now. And so there's a lot of things that potentially are affecting education. So just be aware. And I appreciate the advocacy for folks standing up for whatever way you want to wish to vote and support.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: But there are some things coming up that will affect schools. So just be aware. I do want to follow up on March is the end of the time where

[17241-226] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2026-03-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Okay. Very good. Yes. Mr..
TEXT> Under authority to of the board. Just some clean up language. It's got SA6 board and CSB in any manner, and then it references. SO6 board and CSB. So that just needs to be cleaned up a little bit. Another household item under organization of the board. Chapter one the the.  Well, actually, it's the second sentence. The CSB, we should spell that out the first time and then CSB and in parentheses. Right. So we're going to model for the kids of what we should do. Down in 105 under be the public may attend to observe only they require no public comment period. How about if we just said the public may attend and there is no public comment allowed, and just clean that language up a little bit just to make it a little easier? And to echo what Lauren said, the superintendent reference is all through there.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Sorry for subcommittees.

[17241-260] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: as the administrator there. And so there's a little bit of a shift with some programs, because there are a lot of programs within the buildings right now. So life skills programing. So there is a K to one program that would move to Disney.
TEXT> So they were with their a same age peers. The partners program which is grades two and three would stay at Maple Avenue. And we'll talk a little bit about that. Visions with grades three and four is Maple Avenue. And then pride would stay out. So we're trying to make sure that the most of the students are with, you know, as everybody is with their grade level peers. There's one right now that's the second and third grade. And we're still discussing what that looks like in terms of some students. It's currently how it is. But looking forward, it would be set up so that they would be programmatically meeting their grade level peers. So it grades three four, five. So again, we want folks to be able to stay with the administrator of the building. We can't guarantee every single person would have that. We did discuss it with the Superintendents Council on Monday. I tested notes I'll share those as well. So we hope to accommodate as many requests as possible.  And we gave the said notice to the teachers in pairs yesterday. And so that just to follow up is where we're talking about making sure that the feedback comes in and that can come through me and through my office, not so much restricting everything else was as a community member.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: You're able to share that, but just anything else you want programmatically, then that should come through me as a superintendent and then I can bring that to the board.

[17241-279] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: the end of the year, unpacking at the beginning of the year that's being considered and staggered start times is still being considered too, just to make sure, because now there's more likely to have families that have kids in both, you know, both schools.
TEXT> There's before you might have had 1 in 1 program and 1 in 1 elementary school, but typically most of the students were together. And we're understanding for sure there still could be an impact on staggered start times, too. So there's more to come on this. But we definitely, you know, we welcome more input and think feedback into that, as you know, with groups. But we had to wait till the first hurdle. So literally Wednesday we rolled up our sleeves again just to make sure that we were where we were at. We've had several meetings with the principals, administration, you know, moving forward to.
NEXT> Matt Angell: As it relates to transportation and the start time. We were talking, we're we been committing to have a bus go back and forth between the two elementary schools so

[17241-311] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; outgoing School Board Chair (sentence continuatio | 2026-03-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. Any other comments?
TEXT> Sure. I don't think the purpose is is to I think the purpose is to actually be responsive to concerns and complaints from the community. I don't see it as a push. It would be just a feasibility study. I think there was a lot of frustration from the community that when it was brought up, it was kind of  shot down and that we didn't even have an opportunity to discuss it. There wasn't an opportunity to explore it. I don't think there needs to be a tremendous amount of time dedicated to it. If there is no feasibility, if it just looks like it's a no go, it's a no go and drop it and walk away. But I think the community deserves the opportunity to hear what the options are, what the benefits are. There are true academic benefits aligned with it, and tremendous financial benefits that could take money and reallocate it to our students. The thing that was really inspired me or or made me see the value in this is our ability to increase  the number of certified educators in the district, increase the number of guidance counselors that would be available in the district. I did the numbers and and so people can say no and you can say no to me, but I would like to have folks that actually can give us the data and verify the data. So it's not just an opinion or my personal assessment.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It's I see it as a curtain horse because the next step after that will be cutting those educators after we further. That's that's what we see with districts. So

[17241-356] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Inclement weather aside. And so we've got to make sure that the senior graduation is, not exceeding the five day. Change. And so that's the one caveat that I don't necessarily think has always been in factored. But this is from the department of editor.
TEXT> And so we need to make sure we're aware of that. So it's not as easy right now. We're hoping to make sure graduation stays where it is. But I can't promise anything because we cannot, you know, break that part of it. So it does have some. Juneteenth is a holiday. So that does kind of impact the last week of June for school. So we wouldn't have school on that day. And then the five the few other days for inclement weather days are there too. So just as a reminder, we go by hours  of school and not necessarily school days for the students. And so in order to comply with that, the middle school and high school have, different hours a little bit than the elementary schools, typically in a typical year. Most elementary schools exceed the number of hours that are necessary, but we need to make sure that everything goes by the middle school and high school number of hours, because that's what they're making sure we're monitoring from the Department of Ed. And so there's a formula that goes through.  It's very, complex. And so we've got to make sure.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So this complies with the number of minimum number of hours. But what happens is every snow day, every delay things like that, those hours count towards hours. And so

[17241-357] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: sure that everything goes by the middle school and high school number of hours, because that's what they're making sure we're monitoring from the Department of Ed. And so there's a formula that goes through. It's very, complex. And so we've got to make sure.
TEXT> So this complies with the number of minimum number of hours. But what happens is every snow day,  every delay things like that, those hours count towards hours. And so every two hour delay is two hours. We're not getting for hours to count towards graduation and things for the students, so we have to factor that into it as well. And so we're looking for a motion to approve the calendar as presented right now. If you have questions, Mr..
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Peter, the. I'm missing it. High school. Graduation is actually not. On here.

[17241-361] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Just there's been complications in the past with our schedule not mirroring Newport's vacation schedule. I'm assuming that this is.
TEXT> This met with that. And so we we did get that. Superintendent Randall gave us his version for Newport. We were working with that as well and checking in, you know, as Charlestown, kind of see where we fall with those two. So the start date is pretty similar. And we did look around professional development days. There was a question. There was a day in September because of our voting day, which is different, and they don't have the voting day necessarily on the eighth. So we tried to keep it as close to  the because we're aware of our students between sugar River and other school districts, making sure that they're where they need to be aligned.
NEXT> Unidentified: Other questions.

[17241-365] Brian Rapp | School Board Member (sworn in at this meeting; term to 2029) (sentence | 2026-03-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: I would. Yes, Mr. Murray.
TEXT> So I know the the. Early release professional development days are. I know they're contracted. Has there been discussion on changing changing that with the SRE? It doesn't. I've heard this for years. Half days for the kids. Half the time the parents aren't even sending them. So is there some way to to adjust this?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We can certainly go back and look to see. I mean, I think we agree that that's not the most ideal, and we can certainly look at that to.

[17241-384] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (elected at this meeting) | 2026-03-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: And so just they're willing to look at that for the future. It was a little too late for this year. But we did bring that forth saying could we discuss that and what does it look like? Because our schools are the polling places.
TEXT> So that's that's important part that our schools are the polling places.  And the, the need for parking and the transportation with the children in the schools prevents both things happening at once. And so we have no school on voting days when our schools are used as precincts.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So the, the. The third voting day, the one September h. We got. September, we got March.

[17241-456] Noelle Kronberg | School Board Clerk (administers the oath of office, calls the roll, ke | 2026-03-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: I'll make a motion to provide access and signatory powers per. As described as Mr. Angel. Do you have all the, particulars in there? No. All that you can read back to the board.
TEXT> Like, who is correct? So it provides Matt, Angel, Laurie, Mary, and Big Lee, access for to open and share accounts and conduct visits with associated accounts, endorse checks, orders for payments or transfer funds, and conduct digital banking transactions on behalf of the district, in addition to having access to digital banking. And then the Finance Committee chair and the school board chair would just have access to digital banking.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Acts inquiry, access inquiry.

[17291-31] Mr. Dewey | Representative of the Claremont Kiwanis Club (introduced by the chair  | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. Now let's open it up for comments. Board comments, citizens comments. I see Mr. Dewey here tonight. Representing Kiwanis, and.
TEXT> I don't have any prepared statements or anything, but, this is exactly the kind of thing that the Cornice Club does. We, we work very hard doing fundraising, and it is to support the children. So the the money.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes. Thank you.

[17291-33] Mr. Dewey | Representative of the Claremont Kiwanis Club (introduced by the chair  | 2026-04-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. Thank you.
TEXT> So we raise we work hard to raise money to support the youth in our community and worldwide. So we were very pleased to be able to help out with this.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We are so grateful. Thank you.

[17291-74] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (sworn in 3/18/26; term to 2029); member of the ad | 2026-04-01
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Okay. Okay. They will be added.
TEXT> All right.  And then Leslie Peabody down to the bottom. Shared with you. Mobile van. This doesn't have to go in to minutes, but I'm going to say it anyway.  Friday the Unofficial is going to be at Stephens High School. They're doing a vibrant variations. Very cool deal. I would encourage any of the board members to stop in from 1015 on. Amazing opportunity that she's providing the kids.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That's at Stephens High School.

[17291-92] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: helpful for me to read this statement and, I think this will help and it might allay some comments that might be coming up. We've heard a lot of concerns about Claremont search for a new school leader, and we understand where that's coming from.
TEXT> In the past searches,  the committee and our selection committee has been made up of board members, teachers and administrators and community members. This process has had, to be frank, mixed results. The past superintendents that have been selected this way via a full community search haven't been what Claremont has expected or needed. This year has been an eye opener for all of us in Claremont. Between the deficit, the budget and the departure of people who are in key roles. It through the whole district into disarray. But it also clarified what we need in our next superintendent or executive director. We are trying to move quickly and decisively and felt strongly that the way forward was clear. We need someone who can focus on operations and setting the Claremont schools on the right path. We didn't need large community effort for a long process to figure that out. We need somebody who has extensive experience in operations, someone who can clearly and quickly learn the confidence of the Claremont administrative and educational team, and someone who has the strength to make difficult strategic decisions while understanding the ultimate goal put putting our students on a path to success as a board.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We probably should have kept the community more informed about the kind of leader we know we need for the short term future. It is our job to manage our

[17291-96] Van Holder | Public commenter, Ward 2; parent of a Maple Avenue student formerly at | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: comments, give the citizens and the staff some information to go on regarding the superintendent search and will that I will move on to citizens comments. Do we have any citizens comments? Please state your name and the Ward two. Excuse me. That ward? Yeah.
TEXT> Van hold. Ward two.  I do have a comment about the reallocation of schools for the elementary. That K through five or K-2 five. I know we got told about doing the rollout and couldn't because the equity of students, could. You rely on the school district where staff, students will want to have students go on to Maple instead of trying to move the kids who had just been moved from bluff, and now they have a new home. My student went from bluff. Was in first grade at Maple. If y'all do the realignment, then will go to Disney for one year. Then go back to Maple the following year. That's all I'm moving for a little kid who went from kindergarten, the first grade bluff getting ripped out of bluff this year, put in maple, then possibly getting moved to Disney, then back to make one. So maybe looking at realigning the district if you want to split it.  The other thing is, with the budget being passed, has it been updated with the possible diesel going to $7 a gallon with transportation? That's a lot more transportation, a lot more money within that transportation. And the last one with less transportation would be possibly. I know you probably won't do this.
NEXT> Van Holder: Is up the opening bluff back up keeping them still school up to maintenance for people if someone will possibly buy it or not in the future because I know

[17291-97] Van Holder | Public commenter, Ward 2; parent of a Maple Avenue student formerly at | 2026-04-01
PREV> Van Holder: passed, has it been updated with the possible diesel going to $7 a gallon with transportation? That's a lot more transportation, a lot more money within that transportation. And the last one with less transportation would be possibly. I know you probably won't do this.
TEXT> Is up the opening bluff back up keeping them still school up to maintenance for people if someone will possibly buy it or not in the future because I know I live near it. I saw icicles from the roof two storeys to the ground, which means it wasn't getting kept maintenance or updating. So,  and I know the school has all brand new smart boards in it, and the classrooms are still filled with students and teachers work. So there's a couple things that to think about. If we have all brand new smart boards in there, that's a couple of thousand of dollars by cluster, 20 or $30,000 with just smart boards  and not other technology that we have there. So if we want to the last travel for parents who were in the bluff area, maybe open up school back up, then you have those kids not traveling across the whole district again, and you're down to two busses and not maybe five for the elementary kids every day. So I don't know if you're ever looking into that with what's coming up with the new school year.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So thank you. Thanks. And just for reference, for the public, for future reference reference, we ask that citizens comments relate to items that are not already on the agenda.

[17291-112] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Matt Angell: And. And we couldn't have done it without.
TEXT> I know that it has been a hardship on so many  on on the students, on the staff, on the parents, on the administration. And I am just so grateful that. I won't be confident until we meet July 1st  when we know that that's true. Yes, but I'm delighted at that news.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[17291-154] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: have some called Coda certified occupational therapy assistants. And then we have physical therapists for a few small students and then a physical therapist assistant. So those are within shared models within service delivery. So we have them at Disney and we have preschool students.
TEXT> But then there also we have our students at  Green Mountain Children's Center. There's one for all children childcare and then Head Start. So we're responsible for providing services for the students  in that age range and all of those service providers. So that's what's happening currently in the next one.  And so there's some pros and cons to that, right? So there's a gentle introduction to the school setting. So they get to see it. They're in a small group. They have play based services. They have a very small group size. And they have some 1 to 1 therapy sessions.  They have some community partners. So they get to see unfortunately, some of the cons for that is that the teacher has a very high caseload. There's almost 50 students or seven students in progress.  There's a limited schedule and the service times.  It's not a full program, so it's not quite fully ready for, you know, a typical preschool readiness program.  There's lack of integration and the peer interaction. So it's not, you know, a class of students sitting down interacting and things. So it's students come in for a service and then go home and, you know, throughout the day.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So, the related service times are not being utilized efficiently because there's a lot of travel time between all the centers. And so transitioning. So if the students had been

[17291-158] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: would give us at least a better understanding of who the future students are and then just the future of the preschool. So ideally, our goal would be to have universal preschool. So all the students in Claremont would be able to come into preschool.
TEXT> It would need more spaces, more rooms and things. But then to be able to do some more support for any other programs.  And then the Preschool Development Committee would be something we would love to see happening. And then just again, continuing with community partners, we know it's not going to be always the same setting within the schools, but to get a bulk of the students in the preschool. So that's just a little foreshadowing into the future. So we do anticipate more than we've had this year, but it's less than we would like in the future. So we would love to have some input and see if anybody is interested in looking into working on a preschool committee in the future. Any questions? Yes.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Mr. Oliver, just.

[17291-164] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: that we were actually servicing a different model than the model that we had budgeted for in the 25 budget. Could you tell me the difference in cost between, or how many more parents that we've assigned with this new model? Or early childhood educators?
TEXT> So we have three proposed paras to support the student's needs.  With that, right now, we have more service providers,  and that was what was in the budget. In the proposal. So I can get more details. I don't know if you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Have three more.

[17291-202] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member; Curriculum Subcommittee Chair; Capital Improvemen | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: we have the two administrators from the upper grade levels that you were concerned about. But they are looking at the policy. So we don't have a specific staff policy. There's a student policy, and that's what we're trying to review for our employee handbook.
TEXT> But has the word gotten down to the students?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: The students I will have the administrators who are up on the agenda tonight to give them more updates on that.

[17291-228] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; chair of the ad hoc School Reconfiguration Explor | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes, may.
TEXT> I would like to speak in favor of this motion if anybody watched the video.  About 13 months ago. What happened? All I could say is I was so glad she was there, and I. This is old school. But pity the fool who got between her and these kids.  So I, I, I trust her with our kids lives. Thank you.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I hardly agree. Anyone else make a comment or question? Okay. The motion is on the floor. All those in favor of the motions, AI? All those opposed? Nay. Motion

[17291-230] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: I hardly agree. Anyone else make a comment or question? Okay. The motion is on the floor. All those in favor of the motions, AI? All those opposed? Nay. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you very much.
TEXT> Very much for a great community partner. Few more things, if I could, Madam Chair. Just a couple more recognitions to. Again, thank you to our students. So today is Paraprofessional Recognition Day. So I just want to do a quick shout out to all of our paraprofessionals in our schools. They help our students be more successful. They help them access the curricula and more. So we thank you, paraprofessionals for all you do. You're really a great resource to us and we appreciate you also. April is occupational Therapy Health Month, so our occupational therapists are OTS and our certified occupational therapy assistants their codas. They do so much to help our students function more effectively in school. People used to think it's like, oh, it's just handwriting and things. They do so much more. They help with self-regulation, they develop fine motor skills and they support the sensory processing of information and more. So we thank all of our Codas and all of our educational therapists for all that we do. Just another quick shout out. So last week there was a school social worker conference and  our own Courtney Porter was there.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And not only was she there, she was recognized for her work on their board and she received an award, so they celebrated her at the conference. We appreciate her

[17291-292] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (sworn in 3/18/26; term to 2029); member of the ad | 2026-04-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: would be integrated need further investigation could not combine middle and high school life skills programs can only house students together within a four year age span. So again, to the public. This was not everything is rosy. This looks at the hard truth, right?
TEXT> So it's just a contingency for gathering data. Another important point that the folks will see is, the preschool program model options, which, when you look at the savings and it would actually increase our ability to service that preschool population, which get it before a third grade reading that data shows that it's going to be in a good spot. So that cost data is in there as well. And I'm going to read just one more consolidation goal would be to create an opportunity to expand preschool access to all students who would create space in a lower elementary school to house preschool programs, create fiscal space in a budget to level fund universal general education, preschool support, proof of concept, first step and improve academic achievement. Reduce sped expenses long term. Reduce disruptive behaviors on and on. So I went into this just looking to hear and gather data. And it may mean something. It may not mean something. The board could choose to just close the committee and be done with it, but I think we should at least put it on the site. Include it with the minutes and I'd be interested in feedback. I mean, I don't have all the answers, and certainly everything I read to is the work of Miss Lewis and Doctor Harrington. But it was fascinating to look at.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I'm looking for clarification on the board's. Collective thoughts regarding what you how you see this committee action. And, is there a timeline? You know, I don't want I don't

[17291-305] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; chair of the ad hoc School Reconfiguration Explor | 2026-04-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: And so if there's an opportunity to do great work in a budget neutral way or to provide services that we don't have now, and I don't know if we can pull off the preschool service with the amount of space that we have currently.
TEXT> I don't see it meaning we don't have enough room period to do anything really above this, which is not anywhere close to the ideal that we we want to achieve. So the question is, is that if we have an opportunity to do two very important things, which is to stabilize the budget and reduce overall cost burdens to the taxpayers, and simultaneously be able to offer more educational services to our to our children that are kind of core critical services,  then I don't think you should ever say it's not time for that. I'm not suggesting that it is time now, but the idea that we could we could capture  four, three, four, $5 million and we're just like, let's not do that because it's it's, you know, uncomfortable.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I don't know that.

[17291-351] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; chair of the ad hoc School Reconfiguration Explor | 2026-04-01
PREV> Loren Howard: I don't see anything because there's nothing there's no action. There's just a report. And that just seems like a convenient time for this committee to speak to us again. After all of the feedback tonight.
TEXT> And I, I see, Brian, why you feel that way. And I just want to clarify, is that the way these executive summaries kind of rolled out is that the meetings themselves kind of went different places. There were things I hadn't even thought about. There was opportunities I hadn't even considered. I was primarily looking for the last for the last budget season was how can we save money and maximize our resources? And now it was actually talking to educators, talking to leaders in the building. And I'm like, I didn't think of that. I didn't think of that. So why shouldn't we, like, add that tag that in as a possibility? It's it's just one extra, you know, piece of chess that we can move on the board. And if we can benefit the kids in the and the teachers in the community and keep it budget neutral  or, you know, even reduce the budget at the same time, it's a win win for everybody. So I can see where you would feel that way reading this executive summary, how it kind of went all over the place and how ended up going to preschool. So I do I do appreciate how it could feel that way. And but it was really just a cool meeting, cool conversation and, and a lot of really positive energy that was infectious. So.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay, we're going. To look forward to May when the committee's report on their expectations and and rules. I think this discussion was helpful. It clarifies some for the public

[17291-472] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-01
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Similar to what was done in for the Sass testing last year, where I spoke to them and incentivized taking that test seriously. We've talked to my leadership team, which is most specifically for Saturday. You're talking math and English,  and we're talking about incentivizing the juniors here about, if they are reach a certain score, that they do not have to take their finals in math or English. It's an incentive that gets students to engage a little bit. And I think what happens is that our scores have been artificially low. So I think that you'll see a much more accurate picture  of what our teachers and students are capable of.  So I'm looking forward to that. I'll be speaking to the junior class and giving that speech Monday morning during advisory. The, New Hampshire sass, which is a science testing, is going to be May 6th. The reason and the reason that's the date is really we're kind of we're aligning with Newport, so we don't interfere too much with a region ten agreement, and we don't mess up our kids that go to the Newport Tech Center. I've got the great coworker and tech director who reminds me that I need to focus on that.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So all in all, I am very excited to see what our, what our students have to show. This has been a difficult year, but if I learned anything about

[17291-473] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-01
PREV> Michael Herrington: with Newport, so we don't interfere too much with a region ten agreement, and we don't mess up our kids that go to the Newport Tech Center. I've got the great coworker and tech director who reminds me that I need to focus on that.
TEXT> So all in all, I am very excited to see what our, what our students have to show. This has been a difficult year, but if I learned anything about Claremont in the last four years is. Man, these students shine when they're, you know, back is up against the wall.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: When will you get the results of that?

[17291-504] Brian Rapp | School Board Member (sworn in 3/18/26; term to 2029) | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes.
TEXT> Mr.. Just just a comment, maybe a little concern.  So some kids, if they're high achieving students, they may be tested out. They may be they may have a lot of stuff going on with college applications, stuff like that. So there may be a valid reason for some of these kids to opt out. I'm not not saying we need to like, you know, hard and fast. Say absolutely not. You know, they they opt out and they should be punished. Whatever they're there could be just other circumstances why a student is opting out. Sure. So I think that that should be considered.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I'm not dismissing that, but just financially. It helps us for sure. And it goes to go scores. So even if they just attempt it, it would be, you know,

[17291-507] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: That's helpful information.
TEXT> The, the approach that I take with all of my students when I'm dealing with them is my goal is for them to be incredibly well informed.  And I think that sitting down and explain, I mean, and the kids at Stevens High School are absolutely amazing. I think  Mikayla and Lily are an example of that. And I know Noelle, who was here and has been here. I just  top notch kids in their example of all of the children there. And I think that they deserve to know the reasons why. And once they know, they make very good, informed decisions. And I think that are there going to be some kids that are going, I am doing way too much now. I can't. Sure. But when you inform the majority of them all right, I think they'll say, yeah, I can do this. All right. And we work with them and try and make sure that they get the options to maybe retake it or reschedule it. There is a window. You can kind of do that. But again, it's all about making sure that tends to be an especially the students are informed. That's all. And then whatever right there is that never goes away.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. One final question.

[17291-509] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member; Curriculum Subcommittee Chair; Capital Improvemen | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. One final question.
TEXT> So one is  all of what you say is true. And the kids are great. But you also remember you almost jumped over three seats in the high school at the public meeting because the girl was joking about how she blew it off.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay, what's the second one?

[17291-544] Loren Howard | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: I understand that, and I Mr. Howard.
TEXT> I think there's confusion about we had passed GIC, which is about student conduct, but is not specifically the dress code. And GIC has conversations about reprimands for student Conde, for student dress code violations, but it does not put them out. The policy that we should review is which is last review in 2005 and is exactly what Michael just quoted.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Mr.. Mr.. Mr.. Peter has the table.

[17291-580] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Number eight is more an information. I understand that Maple Avenue, I think the librarian, Maple Avenue has applied for a grant. An online grant of $5,000 to Dollar General.
TEXT> Dollar general has an educational fund. If I could just add on to it. Literacy grant. And so they offer grants to communities within a 15 mile radius of their stores. The grant that she's applying for this would be Jillian Rapp. Who's there? They're library media specialist, is a youth literacy grant, and it's offered to schools, libraries and organizations. And so with the attention with  Buy New Books. And so if it was awarded, it could be $5,000. The problem is we wouldn't know until September 10th. But it's just a make folks aware.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So just aware that they are playing this.

[17291-650] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Go ahead.
TEXT> Are you okay? So, Michelle, I miss Harrington and have been discussing. And so there's some possibilities of looking at some other outside pieces. There's, like, one student from Fall Mountain who may be interested in one of our programs. And is that something that we wish to pursue to see? So if everybody's okay with that, to kind of find out what that would look like, the financial impact, things like that. And so then just more reciprocity potentially with other CTE. So if there's only one student that wants a particular program, we don't want to deny them that opportunity. Transportation would not be included. That would be, you know, depending upon the parents or somebody else. But we don't want to lose student interest into different programs and potentially gain possible income to for some students coming into our program, that may not be into the, the category ten part, where they're part of the agreement, but we don't want to exclude them also too. So if you're okay with that, we can explore more of that. Okay.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Yes. Mr. Howard.

[17300-13] Kim (surname not stated) | Audience questioner — a parent with children in the district "for 11 y | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Thank you. Is there a question from the audience? Yes, Kim. All right.
TEXT> So your,  the letter, the the letter that you wrote,  emphasized your strong command of central office and school level operations and the importance of relating every decision to the community's vision of student success. In my opinion, what I've seen with my kids,  you know, in the district for 11 years now,  we have a lack of clear expectations and holding people accountable. It's been one of the most glaring areas  that I've seen that we need improvement or that need improvement.  How have you built how how have you built and sustained a culture of accountability from the top down across an entire district, ensuring that everyone at every level consistently meets expectations for performance, policy adherence and continuous improvement. And how  will that be tracked going forward?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Great. Thank you. So I, I was raised first as a teacher and then became an administrator in a system that was data driven. And I didn't realize that that

[17300-15] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: we use data in a way that's motivating and not discouraging is really important? My responsibility is to be having that conversation with people all the time, because that simply sets the tone and the expectation that data matters, which really means outcomes matter, right?
TEXT> Because data means we're looking at measures of student achievement. I, I don't believe that test scores are the most important outcome of a school system. But if tests are measuring whether kids can read, write and do math, then they're probably indicators are pretty important things. But there are other outcomes that matter. Right. So if if the state or the federal government doesn't require us to collect data around other things that we value, once we figure out what those things are, let's track that data too. So maybe there's more than one kind of outcome for high school students that we think is valuable. College admission might be important, but maybe it's not the only important thing. We're sitting in a beautiful building, a technical center that should be one of the jewels of this part of the state and of this school system, and maybe is. But I would venture and I have a vocational education background. That's how I started my career, that there are outcomes from the programs in this building that are every bit as valuable, more so maybe for some students than any college admission that happens over at Stevens High School. And if we were appropriately measuring those things and talking about that kind of data, I think we're doing a better job with data than just looking at test scores.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So number one is it's my job to talk about the importance of data and what that means in a way that's inclusive, not exclusive. That's encouraging and not discouraging.

[17300-19] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: weekly basis, then it's actually really easy to address when it doesn't happen because we've agreed it's reasonable. Right. And that, again, it doesn't have to be a very negative, threatening thing. Just hey, this is what we do. This is what we read on.
TEXT> It needs to be done. Most people with feedback will do the things that we've asked them to do. On the very rare occasions that somebody doesn't, there are processes we can go into for performance management to bring them along. And when those processes failed, eventually, once in a while, you turn over some staff and that's okay. Right. Once we've agreed on what we think is reasonable, that's just what we expect. Not not with judgment, not with great negativity, not with a bunch of emotion, but just this is what's reasonable. This is what our taxpayers and our students and their families deserve. So this is what we're going to do. Good, good. Helpful. Okay. Yeah. Thank you.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Next question is about school reconfiguration. I'm not surprised. So there's a big setup, and I'm going to read it.

[17300-36] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes.
TEXT> So,  public schools have been competing for students for decades. Whether we are willing to talk about it and admit it or not. Charter schools have existed since the mid 90s in most states, including in New Hampshire, where the law passed in either 1994 and 1995. Now, it took ten years for the first charter to actually launch in the state, but since something like 2004, there have been charter schools in New Hampshire and just under 4%, I think, of New Hampshire public school eligible students go to charter schools. So to some extent, families have chosen to leave Claremont, among other systems, to go to those schools. And whether we talked about it or not, we were competing for those students. Enrollment. Families are allowed to homeschool, and they've been allowed to homeschool for years. And we don't get very far, in my opinion, in public education, telling families, that's a terrible idea. In my opinion, we get a lot farther by demonstrating the value that we offer in our schools so that they're not looking to leave for homeschooling or charters or open enrollment in another school district.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: We do compete. That's reality. We can choose not to acknowledge it, but it's a fact. And I don't see less of that happening over the last decade or so.

[17300-37] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: in public education, telling families, that's a terrible idea. In my opinion, we get a lot farther by demonstrating the value that we offer in our schools so that they're not looking to leave for homeschooling or charters or open enrollment in another school district.
TEXT> We do compete. That's reality. We can choose not to acknowledge it, but it's a fact. And I don't see less of that happening over the last decade or so. I don't know how anyone else could see less of that happening over the last decade or so, and I don't see myself or even collectively, the 30 or so people who are in this room having the ability to change it anytime, real soon. And I work in the here and now. I work in a public school system today under the current regulatory and legal scheme. So I have to live with conditions and work within the conditions that exist. And that means in a place like this. Here's a great example of this in my opinion. So between 2000 and 24, last school year in 2025, this school year, roughly 10% of the students enrolled in Claremont schools left. The the biggest thing I'm aware of that happened was that last August and September, the papers and the internet were filled with headlines about a financial crisis, which I would guess scared people out of the system. Which is interesting because what actually happens in schools is really separate from them. It wasn't teachers. It wasn't it wasn't second grade curriculum that lost track of the money.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It was a lack of systems in the central office that did that. Principals and teachers are largely the same people who they were. I know there's been some change

[17300-39] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: got to get out of here. I understand some have already started to return, that the enrollment numbers have gone up since the September enrollment submission to the Department of Education, and by January, you're already seeing people back in the system, which is wonderful.
TEXT> So in this case, the question was about competition, right? You're competing with yourselves and you're competing with the perception that this situation created in the community and going forward, how how do you not just create a perception, but actually a reality where people can understand what's here for kids? To me, that goes back to data. It goes back to outcomes, right? However, we choose to measure outcomes and the value we offer to kids in the community, that's what gives them a reason to want to be here. I do think, and I'm not going to apologize for this, that one of the most important things we do in our public schools that we don't do well enough in many cases, is explain to people why we offer the best opportunities for their kids. That's what we should be trying to do all the time.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Very good. I'm going to I'm going off track here. So just FYI, this district, passed a, Warren article in March, that, said that we would pay for zero students

[17300-45] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: hurt communities like Claremont Tech? One part two. As our leader, how will you try and hold the state of New Hampshire accountable in order to ensure the state funding that New Hampshire Supreme Court has repeatedly ruled we are entitled to as a community.
TEXT> More good questions. Thank you.  So I said this a few minutes ago. I work for a school district. Whatever system it is under the existing legal and regulatory scheme. Those are the conditions under which I work. So my about them is mostly irrelevant because I'm not going to change them, not by myself. And in New Hampshire, even a few hundred people will have a hard time changing them. And I'm looking at one of your elected representatives when I say that.  So. My job when I work for a school system is to work with constituents to figure out what is strategically in the best interest of that system and then to fight for whatever that is. And if you look, think about what I just said and look at the last seven years of my career, and it might make sense in a different way, because I went to a system that had an existential threat to the quality of its high school in the form of declining enrollment, and actually tried 3 or 4 other things. First, before  reading this law, the open enrollment law, and then working with them on that. I'm obligated. I like to say, if until we start returning the paychecks, we have to do what's best for the school system, right? If I take your money, I have to do what's best for you. So I've done that for my employers. I would do that for Claremont.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Now, it might look different. They might be different things to the funding question. So I love this. Again, being from New Hampshire and being kind of familiar with the

[17300-46] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: say, if until we start returning the paychecks, we have to do what's best for the school system, right? If I take your money, I have to do what's best for you. So I've done that for my employers. I would do that for Claremont.
TEXT> Now, it might look different. They might be different things to the funding question. So I love this. Again, being from New Hampshire and being kind of familiar with the first Claremont lawsuit and the second Claremont lawsuit. Now more recently, the convention rent cases.  The second suit to me did one of the most important things, which was to. To create an expectation that the way the state redistributes its tax revenue is part of the problem. But since 2011, that's been undone. Right. What? They came together and called themselves donor communities. Right? Successfully changed the original swept system so that they get to keep all their own money, their own. Right. It's a by the way, when I pay, when I pump gas and I pay a gasoline tax, I pay the same amount no matter where I'm pumping gas. Right. But when I pay property taxes, it depends on where I'm able to afford to buy a home. So working for the best interests of the Claremont district, this becomes a very important thing to talk about and to go to Concord and advocate for, because to me, that's the fundamental problem. Claremont last year spent roughly $26,000 per student, not including out of district special ed costs or transportation.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: That should be enough money. The funding problem here isn't not enough money. It's too much money having to come from a place that it's just not realistic to expect

[17300-58] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Michelle (surname not stated): it's important for teachers to get together and discuss. Right now, they're covering each other to go to the bathroom. They're covering the nurse to answer the door. So how how are you going to handle this crisis situation right now where we don't have.
TEXT> It's probably worse here, but it's not unique to here. This is happening in a lot of our public schools over the last 5 to 7 years, that it has been much harder to hire. It has been much harder to keep buildings fully staffed. I do I do need to say, because and again, I've said it to other people throughout the day, so the truth is the truth. I was a little surprised at some of the class sizes in your elementary schools. I think you're a little higher.  And just looking at the numbers at the highest level, it looks like there should be enough money. So I don't know enough right now to go farther than that. But I was a little surprised at the class sizes. Also, not having an actual four day a week, half day preschool program for every student who qualifies for that. To me, that's a serious, probably high priority concern  for a system that wants to make sure kids learn to read, write, and do math and then become citizens. I mean, this there's so much research on the value of preschool.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It's just it goes without saying. But look, to be fair, I wasn't here. You've dealt with some extraordinary financial pressures. You had a real crisis here. I can't second

[17300-64] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Unidentified audience member — addressed as "Doctor": based on the score. So my question, how do you think about scores as part of what a school system should be measured by, and is increasing scores in explicit goal or a byproduct in the way you think, etc.? Expand the question issue with.
TEXT> So. So the last part first my personal belief what what motivates me increases in quantitative student achievement levels. All right. Byproduct of doing the right things. That's what I believe. So just to answer that directly.  But it is very popular to use these arbitrarily determined universal achievement levels of competency as sort of a yardstick for everyone. But if we know children, which I'm guessing most people here no children, we know that the same yardsticks don't work for every child, that kids have different needs, and we should have different expectations for them if we see them as human beings. If you care enough to go home and do this, there's a researcher at Stanford named Sean Reardon who has done a lot of work around socioeconomic status and expected achievement. It is actually, since about 2011, in the United States, a community socioeconomic status is the strongest indicator of likely student achievement levels on all sorts of standardized assessments. Stronger than race, stronger than any other factor. There's a scatter chart that I can bring it sometime. It's great.  Students in the lowest socioeconomic status, zip codes or catchment areas on average will achieve up to three grade levels below what we would typically consider average grade level expectation. And students in our wealthiest public school catchment areas will achieve up to three grade levels above what we would consider average or typical grade level expectation.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So a competency rating that's based on that average expectation, if that's even what it's based on, doesn't work equitably for students in all of those communities across the United

[17300-79] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: to be spent in classrooms, on kids and teachers and support staff who serve kids. So one of the pieces of that was an assistant superintendent for curriculum, instruction and assessment. We hired him three years ago last year, his second year on the job.
TEXT> We saw growth in our school that was farthest behind in student achievement. We saw growth above the state average level. This goes to learning to celebrate the right indicators of success. So student achievement right. The percentage of students in the school scoring at or above proficient has not skyrocketed is not where anybody wants it to be. But the student's rate of growth last year was higher than the state average among elementary schools. That was a huge success for them. School. So that took two years after we hired that assistant superintendent for curriculum, instruction and assessment, and he will be the next superintendent there. I think whether it's this July or a year later.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you. Yes, doctor.

[17300-101] Unidentified audience member — central-office staffing question | Audience questioner familiar with the SAU central office ("it's very n | 2026-04-06
PREV> David (surname not stated): I really.
TEXT> I have two very unrelated questions. May I please. I'm looking to the leader. When you talked about pre-K, you talked about students who qualify for pre-K. Can you elaborate on that, please?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So I need to be really careful when I don't know the detail about what I'm talking about, because I do think this is really important. Like, I'm not an

[17300-113] David (surname not stated) | Audience participant recognized by the chair three times as "David" (2 | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. David.
TEXT> So part of my background. Is. Involved with training from a car seats to to public policy and action listens. And we worked on programs of sustainability to develop in social economical challenges like climate of how to engage the parents, the family so they would be more supportive of their children's future and education, which the goal was to raise their their educational opportunities and they have better results. And it's a real struggle. You've already acknowledged that and that your your numbers two are right on, by the way, and how you said the percentage lower and the percentage higher. So what is your goal here? Visionary. Visionary. It's going to take a few years to do this.  Of making it more sustainable so that the community can start believing in the school system and that it means something to them. So they see what, not just test scores, but but the end result of their child going on and being successful in life. How are you going to sustainably put that in place?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So now maybe, maybe half of us in the room tonight. When we were kids, we were told, if if you work hard and you play by the rules, you're

[17300-114] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> David (surname not stated): believing in the school system and that it means something to them. So they see what, not just test scores, but but the end result of their child going on and being successful in life. How are you going to sustainably put that in place?
TEXT> So now maybe, maybe half of us in the room tonight. When we were kids, we were told, if if you work hard and you play by the rules, you're going to end up better off than your parents. And it was true. The other half, roughly, of the people in the room, if you were told that it wasn't true, and our kids now and their parents have figured that out and they've actually for about 20 years, maybe more that and if you if you look at data around this, this is what happens if you look back to the mid 20th century and you look at economic status of adults compared to their parents. It was it was almost universally true. Go to school, earn your high school diploma, maybe go to college. You're going to be better off than your parents were. This was true through the 70s into the 80s. It ended somewhere in the 90s or around 2000. I'm not sure exactly where there was a tipping point, and it's just not. And if you have older kids right now who are trying to figure out how to pay rent or buy a house. And pay college debt. Right. We all know that it just changed. It just changed. It changed gradually. If you look at the data, it's actually a very linear kind of a progression or a decline in the data.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So I think that engaging families now, I mean, our I look at the parents of our kids in public schools today and their kids to me. So now we've

[17300-115] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: pay rent or buy a house. And pay college debt. Right. We all know that it just changed. It just changed. It changed gradually. If you look at the data, it's actually a very linear kind of a progression or a decline in the data.
TEXT> So I think that engaging families now, I mean, our I look at the parents of our kids in public schools today and their kids to me. So now we've got a generation of parents or more than one maybe, who were raised with this myth, and we're asking them to tell their kids, work hard and play by the rules so you can be better off. And they're going to say, maybe I worked hard and played by the rules, but I'm not better off. So what are we trying to sell? I think it goes back again to how do we define achievement, what's an outcome that we value and what's. And we have to ask them what's an outcome that's meaningful to you for your kids or grandkids? Or if if there's an outcome that's meaningful for you as an adult, maybe there's a toe hold for us there. That brings me back to this building, which I don't know if we're the only function here this evening, but in a building like this, there could be other things going on, potentially in the evening. They should be.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: That would serve the parents of our students regarding the value and the outcomes that we can provide in our public school system, and maybe that's part of a solution

[17300-116] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: a toe hold for us there. That brings me back to this building, which I don't know if we're the only function here this evening, but in a building like this, there could be other things going on, potentially in the evening. They should be.
TEXT> That would serve the parents  of our students regarding the value and the outcomes that we can provide in our public school system, and maybe that's part of a solution to that. But there's a really big societal problem here, right? It's a it's a it's a socioeconomic problem across our society for the last 50 to 100 years, a solution here. Now I think it starts with, again, it can't all be about getting everybody into a four year college. We're way beyond that, I think. Yes. Right. It's got to be about other outcomes that actually matter in people's lives. Right? How do I go from I can make this wage on an hourly basis to I can make this wage with a reasonable investment.
NEXT> Unidentified audience member — addressed as "Doctor": Can can you put one more end very short.

[17307-176] Rocco Ruggeri | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity-side SAU 6 Board Member | 2026-04-09
PREV> Rocco Ruggeri: be created. By the Saw board. So the two school boards in advance or prior to the separation outlining, how to manage almost everything and anything from liabilities, assets, support, resources, whatever it is, just to get everything outlined, kind of the list that continues.
TEXT> You know what the source six be a role is, in, you know, closing out year end, records, documents, whatever that is, it support. So it's a big one. I know, there's a lot of it work that needs to be done. And, that's what the agreement would outline. So he pretty much summed it up in a way where  he said, you know, for example, myself and Candice from the two boards here could get together with Kerry and Matt and kind of create an outline. He would facilitate some of the conversation and the structure of the MOU to make sure things aren't missed, and that they're addressed properly  in the best interest of, of, both districts. And then I believe that would come to vote. I think it would come to vote. I don't really know.  But the agreement will be created  that way when unity is no longer part of six, will be two very separate entities with no overlap that will have an agreement in place so that we can work together to just close everything out. As everybody would expect it to be. That's kind of it in a nutshell. So, I mean, with that, you know, maybe at a, at a high level, we could get  some of the, the key points discussed that might be of consideration. From the I don't know.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I want to do some introductions if you're okay. Just so we did bring Jason Bonneville, who? Our director of informational services and instructional technology. And then Paige Jarvis is

[17307-212] Jason Bonneville | Director of Informational Services and Instructional Technology, SAU 6 | 2026-04-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: money in your budget to just you're going to have to have somebody it part time anyway, like in house being available to come and troubleshoot. That's my assumption, Jason. Unless I. Mean. Unless I'm wrong, you're going to have to have somebody in house.
TEXT> You're going to you're going to need someone that can be there to do a lot of the stuff. Now, I can say from my perspective with supporting unity, you guys are pretty self-sufficient. All right. We get every once in a while, we get a broken Chromebook, and then every once in a while, you know, I think the heaviest lift that I do for you in a year is really your new student enrollment, where I create all the accounts for the kids at the beginning of the year. Short of that, it's onesie tos. It's simple questions here and there. Sue actually does a pretty good job as far as being able to maintain a lot of the stuff herself.  So but I mean, I am managing your entire Google instance. I am managing the apps that get pushed out, the Chromebooks, all that kind of stuff. Inventory.  So there is there is a lot of pieces to it. So there's you're going to want somebody that can be available.  But like I said, the the lift for unity on my plate right now is not that severe. The, the lift of getting you guys separating, getting everything that's going to be huge.  Like I said, I can walk to my office and disconnect.
NEXT> Jason Bonneville: You and your phones and internet are out, like you're physically wired to us. So, there's going to be a lot of bits and pieces that happen there for sure.

[17323-19] Michelle Herrington | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: you on, but thank you for all your hard work. The second thing we'd like to recognize is we learned about this is the ambassadors program. And we have five ambassadors here tonight. And Miss Harrington is going to tell us about the ambassadors program.
TEXT> Yes.  Hi, guys. I'm Michelle Harrington, the director at the tech center.  I'm going to move this a little bit because I feel really short when I'm when I'm married. So over the summer, I went to a director's meeting.  A conference for three days and talked to all the directors  across New Hampshire. And a big topic of conversation was student ambassadors. How awesome it was doing in some some  tech centers and then how some centers don't have it at all.  So during lunch, I was really trying to just pick people's brains of, what do you do for a student ambassador? How does it work?  And just kind of getting all this information and across the board. It was every center pretty much did it differently. So I was like, okay, we're going to try it.  I didn't love any idea perfectly, so I just tried to make it my own.  In the summertime, my goal was to really kind of focus on the student ambassadors. And as we know, the school year kind of changed.  So I wanted to pilot it this year and just do level twos as the student ambassadors.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: And, it was really tricky to figure out who to pick in such a short period of time. So I talked to the teachers. They're all level twos, except for

[17323-30] Unidentified | Student ambassador, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - Jus | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah, we'll do some of the things that you do as ambassadors.
TEXT> So a student ambassadors like Miss Harrington said it was student led. There's one person from every program, and we take all of everything that we've heard from, like the our pupils and our peers. Yeah. And we bring together and we figure out what kind of events or what kind of things need to be changed or just, you know, student base of what needs to happen within the tech center. So if they're going to like,  like a fun day at the tech center, we're the one who kind of put those events together. If we're doing, like tours, for instance, like we did the tour with the middle school students, we kind of put that all together and set up for everything.  We did a kind of like challenge event with the level twos, I think,  they went around to different classrooms and we kind of put those events together.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So giving us some leadership in your program of of studies?

[17323-53] Don Lavalette | School Board Member; Policy and Finance subcommittees; ad hoc reconfig | 2026-04-15
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Right. Yeah.
TEXT> And again on the same line says Doctor Harrington stated that it is after a certain percentage of students. So can we get a clarification on what the percentage of students is? So our minutes are robust? Yeah. And then. Under other business, if you look towards the bottom where it says Mr. shared that there are students at the charter school that are interested. Just for clarification, could we put Riverview Charter School in there? And we don't need a partnership. We already have a partnership. We already provide services to them and some of their kids take band and theater and sports. So it's really just a matter of making the taking a phone call and saying, we've got a couple of kids that want to enroll. So that was my other follow up for there. Would would it be appropriate? Madam chair, I have a couple other follow ups just to ask about those April 1st minutes.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Are they. Perfunctory. Or

[17323-154] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. And then the the preschool we're. Moving to May, update on the right to know request. Okay.
TEXT> So I. Did have. Some. Specifics to share about the right to know request. I will say it is a very voluminous task.  And let me just read it out. So right now there are currently 61 completed right to know requests since November 1st November hit. We really said we needed to. It was, you know, one here, one there originally. Then November came and it just kept piling up. So we started a document. You know, Jason Bonneville was fabulous about just putting it together. And it has a strike through. So as soon as we can say it's completed. So of the tab that we have, there's 61 completed right to know requests. We received requests from community members, board members, parents in the press. 11 are in progress and those are very in depth. So and those involve locating, reading, redacting, verifying, sharable and non sharable personally identifiable information about students, staff, administrators, board members and more. So those require a lot more time for that. So some have all 8000 emails to be reviewed. It does involve legal. It does involve some staff. So just to make sure everybody knows it is very time consuming.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: There are four of us who have access to this document right now. So it's Jason Bonneville, Chelsea Weatherford, myself, and then Matt. And so each request is a minimum

[17348-12] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presiding) - this cluster also absorbs parts of th | 2026-05-06
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: I just want to say thank you because, you know, I'm a picky guy, so great job, I guess. I got nothing.
TEXT> So I'm relieved. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else  in approval of the manifest?  Any any comments on this consent agenda? Seeing no opposition, we're. We approve of them. And so no. In minutes.  We usually go on to citizens comments at this point, but I would like to make a change. I would like to have our student board rep  report. This hard working girl is going to work, and she needs to give her report before we take up too much of her time. So we welcome.
NEXT> Lily Clark: Thank you. So, as. You may know, last time I was here, I was talking to you about the senior play puffs. It was a really, really great turn out.

[17348-16] Lily Clark | Student School Board Representative, Stevens High School, Class of 202 | 2026-05-06
PREV> Unidentified: Oh.
TEXT> Sorry. No. You're fine. We had a parent. The music department also had a parent competition preview concert.  We had a bunch of people come. It was like a spring concert, but we previewed our competition music. The band played a piece that has never been performed before for anyone in the world.  Because, one of our students, Kieran Adrian, actually composed the song. He got a standing ovation at the end of it, and that has never happened at Stevens High School, which is really cool. And then Trevor Adams,  also conducted a piece.  And Miss Trudeau sat out and he did a wonderful job. Our baseball team and our softball team are doing pretty well. Unfortunately, lacrosse is not doing so well. Unified track had their first meet on April 30th. The Twilight meet and the track team has done a really, really good job at their meets that they have gone to. I actually have some stuff about clubs this time. So Key Club helped clean up the historical society to get it ready for the opening. And they keep talking about it. So I'm assuming that it went really well. National Honor Society also had  a blood drive the Friday before vacation and we filled all spots for it, which is really good. The juniors this year are hosting prom on May 16th, and the theme this year is Parisian Twilight.
NEXT> Lily Clark: And senior stuff is upon us right now. There's senior assassin going on right now. So if you see any seniors with some floaties or goggles, that is why we

[17348-31] Rebecca | Public commenter, Ward 1 (as announced); parent, Claremont Middle Scho | 2026-05-06
PREV> Rebecca: done. If there's something we're doing wrong as a school, to not get some of the love that some of the teachers that we can't get more staff. The other schools seem to have a little extra and it can't seem to come to us.
TEXT> And what about these students that are not getting the support that they need? The teachers that are not getting the support that they need? The one to ones that are required, the special education. What? You're not addressing this at all. And I know we're in April, but we're not over the year is not over. Where in May, aren't we? I'm sorry.  I also this question has been asked repeatedly,  but what's a safe number? We're very concerned that we're not going to have enough teachers. And how are we going to handle that one day? We're all scared to death. And it's really been all year where we're going to show up at work and not have enough staff, period. I mean, you're so close. These students deserve better. We deserve better. Tell us if there's something we're doing wrong as a school. Let us know. I just feel like there's a conspiracy theory that this. And I want to give you the opportunity to address it. There's a conspiracy theory that this has been done on purpose, that there is an effort to close another school.
NEXT> Rebecca: And so you're just purposely not filling. I know, I know, but it's out there and I would love to give you the opportunity to say no. That's ridiculous. Why

[17348-39] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presiding) - short-utterance cluster ('thank you', | 2026-05-06
PREV> Michelle Springer: and others. Yet here we are. What I am asking tonight is simple acknowledge reality, take accountability, and create a plan that is compliant, transparent, and centered on students. Because right now, the cost of not doing that financially, legally and ethically is far greater.
TEXT> Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other citizens who would like to comment tonight? I don't see any. Doctor Harrington, are you. All right? Thank you.  All right. Then I'm going to close citizens comments. And thank you for preempting. I was going to thank the two school board members who who did the teacher appreciation for us, Dawn Lavallée and Lauren Howard, on behalf of the school board.  As a gesture to, for the board to recognize teachers, delivered tulips to the teachers this week. And so we thank you guys for taking that on and organizing it and doing the work so well.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thanks. It was a pleasure.

[17348-68] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (through 6/30/2026) - merged cluster: al | 2026-05-06
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: 11th regardless, but we're just checking out everybody else's last day of school, so I know it's been something of interest, obviously, for everybody. We apologize. We have to go through the Board of Education, and it's just on their agenda for the May 12th.
TEXT> And so as soon as we hear it, we'll let you know what the answer is, and we'll get some more information out as soon as possible.  Moving on. So I just do need to share with you. This is from the Goshen School District. There is a letter that we have  that comes through because it's through saw six, but it also impacts Claremont. So I just want to explain the Claremont side of it. So this is to the C six board chair Mr.. And miss Candace Crawford for the Claremont School Board. So I'm just sharing what was stated. This is a letter from April 10th, and it's from Peter Brigham who is the chair of the Goshen School Board. This is dear Mr. and Mrs. Crawford, on behalf of the Goshen School Board, I offer this letter to advise you that the number 102 is not pursuing an extension to our anchor school tuition agreement that ends on June 30th, 2026. This notice is being provided in accordance with the provisions of article three of the six Claremont Goshen Unity Tuition Agreement, which is determined on June 30th, unless an extension is agreed to by both parties pursuant to article nine of the agreement. We do intend to allow any Goshen student currently enrolled in Claremont High School the opportunity to remain in Claremont for the duration of their education.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: The Goshen School Board offers best wishes to the Claremont School District going forward. However, we believe it is in the best interest of students in our community to seek

[17348-69] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (through 6/30/2026) - merged cluster: al | 2026-05-06
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: on June 30th, unless an extension is agreed to by both parties pursuant to article nine of the agreement. We do intend to allow any Goshen student currently enrolled in Claremont High School the opportunity to remain in Claremont for the duration of their education.
TEXT> The Goshen School Board offers best wishes to the Claremont School District going forward. However, we believe it is in the best interest of students in our community to seek educational services elsewhere. On behalf of the entire Goshen community, please accept our sincere thanks for the Sussex efforts to educate our students. And again, that was from Peter Brigham, the chair of the Goshen School Board. So it'll come before the six as a whole board. But I wanted to make sure you're aware too, because this happens before the next six meeting, which will be in April. I mean, May, May 21st, I believe so 20. Okay. Yes. You're right. We've moved. Okay.  And then Doctor Broderick, I believe, is up next.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I mentioned that Doctor Broderick is spending a day, a week in the district, and he's beginning to put together some of his team. That will start on July 1st,

[17348-439] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (School Reconfiguration Exploratory Committee; sup | 2026-05-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: evaluate how those software make sense. So that so I pushed that off to October. And then I head down the discussion of filming subcommittee meetings. I'm going to ask Lauren if you'll organize this and make some recommendations. Sure. All right. Is there. Yes.
TEXT> Can you dull to me for a few minutes? I just have a couple of things. Sure. So it pains me that I have to say this, but I just want the public to know that the tulips that we delivered. There was no cost to the district. They were paid for by us  as our token of appreciation and shout out to Putnam's for handling such a big order from us. I did one follow up carry. Maybe you can help me. Has Riverview Charter School been contacted by this  tech center? As I had asked about getting those kids to come here to the tech center. Right.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: You know, I apologize. No, we have to do that so we can definitely follow up with that.

[17373-21] Taylor Trudeau | Music teacher/director, Stevens High School (introduced by the Interim | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: Welcome.
TEXT> Hi everyone. Thank you so much for having us here. It's really nice to get to recognize some of these awesome students behind me, and lots more that  we're not able to fit in this room.  But the music department has had an exceptional year this year, despite all of our challenges, which is really, really wonderful. Thank you. Big thank you to our wonderful community for all of their support. The bank, all those wonderful donations we got really helped us be successful this year with a really, really great group of kids. So just to hit on a couple, they've had a really a huge list of things that they've done this year  that have been wonderful. But  just a couple of those. We had six students, as you might have seen, make the New Hampshire All-State Festival this year, which is more than we've had in a very, very, very long time, which is very, very cool. And most of those students also scored within the top three of the entire state on their instrument, which is really, really cool.  That included our first  student who made the All-State Modern Band, which is like a rock style band. Who's back there? Andrew,  on the keys and some players in our orchestra, the All-State orchestra, choir and band, which was really, really wonderful to see.
NEXT> Taylor Trudeau: And people definitely kind of took note at that at the New Hampshire or the New Hampshire Music Educator Festival. Like, wow, there's a lot of Claremont students here this

[17373-24] Taylor Trudeau | Music teacher/director, Stevens High School (introduced by the Interim | 2026-05-20
PREV> Unidentified: Who.
TEXT> So just so many wonderful students.  Not only are they great musicians, but a lot of these kids behind you do so much. I'm sure many of you have heard and seen Noelle before. She's very active in our community. We have many multisport students back there, as well as musicians that made all states so just such a great community of kids. And I just wanted to,  the superintendent invited  our small group to come up to play something for you, just as a little  representation of some of the work we've been doing this year. So the group that's going to play for you and you guys can go ahead and get your hands and come on up.  Is the group that  placed a  got a one rating at the Soul and Ensemble Festival. So they're just going to play something really short for you. You might recognize it. It's a very famous cue of music called The Sorcerer's Apprentice. And this is our woodwind quintet from the high school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Are you going to introduce the students? Sure. Please.

[17373-60] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (Policy, Curriculum and Finance subcommittees; ret | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Done. Yes.
TEXT> I just wondering as I know I'm beating this like a drum, but as Riverview been contacted to get that coordination for the kids that are there that want to come to the tech center.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We're still working on that. Just to make sure. And I know Miss Jarvis is checking in to see what she can do to have that happen.

[17373-134] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (delivers the monthly finance re | 2026-05-20
PREV> Matt Angell: there were improvements made to the property for just over $160,000, which included a new handicap ramp, fire alarm and sprinkler system. Within this amount were unpaid architectural fees for 18,900. And we're right now reviewing whether that architect wants to be paid or not.
TEXT> Moving on.  And this is the final portion we have, for request for proposal or, and qualifications  that are outstanding. Tonight we're going to be talking about student transportation, student photos, food service, and then the RFQ for the sale of property. Okay. That's it.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I would like to respond to the carrying costs for the Masonic Temple there. We spent 150,000 for improvements. In fact, the board voted to spend 50,000 for that. And

[17373-347] Loren Howard | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair; ad hoc communications  | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: There's a motion on the floor. Further discussion.
TEXT> It was mentioned, but they are owned by an ex 360. So it's not just Winston's. And I think it's important to read some of the paperwork that this companies put out. It's a little bit dystopian, frankly, and knowing that they're who they are, who own the food service. I know on the individual level, there's probably great people working in our schools and providing food for our kids. But I would really like to see,  especially next year, more  of an effort to get more bids. I feel, you know, we're limited in our area, but this it's really sad that this was like our  one of our only options.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Frankly, I think our deficit position scared away that one vendor.

[17373-421] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides; calls the meeting to order, controls the | 2026-05-20
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Howard? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Ryan. Rap. Yes. Yes. And it's Crawford. Yes.
TEXT> All right. We're all set on that. Okay. Moving on to the general assurances that file was attached.  So people could review it. It would be good to have a motion to  accept.  Well, no, to authorize me to sign on behalf of the board.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: So moved.

[17373-443] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee; chair of the ad hoc School  | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: I would like to have you follow up on that, but we need. Yes. The still discussion.
TEXT> Yeah. I think the only thing that is important that we do is document in the minutes that the board agrees that Mr. Howard can speak on behalf of the board and authorize, like the investigation of activities. And like we're saying, we just should have a documented that the whole board is empowering him to do that so he can go do that.
NEXT> Loren Howard: And I will keep it, especially if we're just paying the committee. I'll keep it within the scope of making this phone call with no lessons and trying to bring

[17373-466] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (Policy, Curriculum and Finance subcommittees; ret | 2026-05-20
PREV> Loren Howard: students and parents the opportunity to, to do that if they wish. I don't think that inhibits any teacher from encouraging them to do so, but I think requiring them to do so is just something I'm not sure that's something we can legally do.
TEXT> Well, I think this is a tremendous improvement because it puts a burden on the student, and the student feels like he should. He's capable of taking on the extra work or the extra effort. I say go for it.  And I understand that in Albany they have no kinds of success where they did that, and they're getting much higher scores on the Advanced Placement test. So I think this is great.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. Let's, about all those in favor say aye.

[17397-15] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: I'm leaving that as it is for now. All right. And if anyone is agreeing to the consent agenda, that means you're approving of the minutes for five, 20, 26. All right. Before we get to citizens comment, we have a yearbook recognition is Kennedy.
TEXT> Are we able to go forward right now? I would love to welcome and introduce Mr. Larry Walsh.  And some folks here. So. Miss Walsh, do you want to hold this up as a sample, or do you want to take that? So,  we just like to recognize. So Johnston's the yearbook company has done a special recognition.  So I'm just going to give a talk about it, Miss Walsh. And,  each year they look at all the yearbooks. And so this year, we've been awarded the Silver Level award for engaging yearbooks that reflect a broad representation of the student body while helping students and develop 21st century skills such as communication, collaboration and information and communication technology, ICT literacy. So we would just like to celebrate Miss Wallace and somebody from her group, her class. So explain a little bit about how it's different this year. This year.
NEXT> Hilary Walsh: It is. Hi, I'm Hilary, technology teacher at Stevens High School, and this is Chloe Smith, one of my editors. She's been with me for four years now. At started.

[17397-16] Hilary Walsh | Technology teacher and yearbook adviser, Stevens High School (self-ide | 2026-06-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: and develop 21st century skills such as communication, collaboration and information and communication technology, ICT literacy. So we would just like to celebrate Miss Wallace and somebody from her group, her class. So explain a little bit about how it's different this year. This year.
TEXT> It is. Hi, I'm Hilary, technology teacher at Stevens High School, and this is Chloe Smith, one of my editors.  She's been with me for four years now.  At started. Oh, I have notes. Well, I bought my notes.  Well, it started out as a club.  And we were doing it after school with probably four,  five of us, 4 or 5 of us at the beginning of the year. And it ended up there would be like three of us, maybe towards the end of the year. And we were just like pushing, pushing, pushing. And we were doing a full year book  up and like and it would come out in the fall. And when Doctor Harrington came in, he's like, well, let's change it. Let's get it published in the spring. Which deadline? In the beginning, end of March, end of February. And we're we're working on a 32 page supplement,  right now, which will get direct mail to the seniors and then, in the fall, the rest of the kids will be picked,  get it? So we'll have everything from,  all the spring sports graduation.  So they're working on that, that now.
NEXT> Hilary Walsh: So it went. Last year we brought it to the school board, put it in the program studies to bring it in as a class. And we had 18 students

[17397-60] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay.
TEXT> All right. So there's a question in I know it's up in a little bit so I can wait if you want to. The order of the agenda the credit recovery in that part. But there was also an update asked about power school versus alma. And so our student information system currently using Power school, we've been using it for a while. Our plan is to shift to alma. There was a discussion about having this  school year. We had put it off, and our goal is still to keep working on that. So there'll be a key few key folks that will get trained starting soon. There's a meeting coming up on Friday to discuss what that rollout looks like.  We want to do this gradually and thoughtfully. That was why we didn't rush into it this year, because I guess apparently the contract had been signed for for, you know, getting it started this January. We were not ready. We were not looking forward to that this past January.  We again, would like to do a thoughtful rollout.  Mister Angel and a few other folks will be meeting with  with Alma  on Friday to go over, like, what does it look like?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And there'll be a few key people that will get trained initially and then have a more gradual rollout to. So folks that are in power school, just so families

[17397-113] Heather Whitney | School Board Member (learning loss at the middle school) | 2026-06-03
PREV> Tim Broadrick: building to make things work? So it's not that that's not already happening. We're already talking about it. I am just loathe to jump into a public conversation about those kinds of radical decisions before we've given the first two possibilities a really robust chance.
TEXT> My my other. And I understand that all four and kind of being able to bring in bodies into the school. But I have real concerns about learning loss that happened at the middle school this year. We haven't had end of year  results assessment yet, so  to be able to provide additional supports for the students that had learning losses this year, I'm just concerned that compounding it, they're going to be walking into high school and that we need to be thinking about how we can bring additional supports into the middle school above and beyond, just to mitigate the I'm assuming there's going to be learning loss, I can't I can't imagine that there's there's not going to be some learning loss that happened this year.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: I am with you on that. And I actually think that it is likely that over the course of the next year, we are going to end up talking about

[17397-114] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: about how we can bring additional supports into the middle school above and beyond, just to mitigate the I'm assuming there's going to be learning loss, I can't I can't imagine that there's there's not going to be some learning loss that happened this year.
TEXT> I am with you on that. And I actually think that it is likely that over the course of the next year, we are going to end up talking about a multi-year recovery plan for learners, not just for you need a recovery plan for finance and operations and district administration, right? We know that already. I think we're going to be doing the same thing for learning,  because we won't know for a little bit what the impact on students has been this year. But I it's not imaginable that there hasn't been a significant impact on student learning this year. Okay. I think there has to have been and we need to see data to know what that what that means and then to figure out what we can do about it. I think it's going to be more than a one year solution.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Sure.

[17397-126] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Other board members regarding this topic. Good. Let's move on to the next one. Yeah.
TEXT> So the org chart look, this is really a draft, but I wanted to throw a couple of ideas at you. I am absolutely not asking for a decision.  I'll bring you a funding source before I ask for a decision about anything, because otherwise I'm not following my own rules. Which are if you can't pay for it, you can't do it. But I wanted to. If you haven't seen it, it's attached. It's a separate PDF in the email.  Hopefully attached in print. There's there's a org chart that was revised last fall for what your conditions were at the time. The first thing you'll notice is, is that I've broken this into two. Yeah. Right. The central office and educational programs. I have to oversee both,  but not everyone does. I'm sure Matt cares very much about student learning, but at the end of the day, I don't care how much Matt cares about student learning and even pay the bills. So it's it's a distinct,  universe. The, the biggest change and this isn't I didn't show up and come up with a brilliant idea to save you money.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: You already did it. But this reflects your budget. When you did the budget for next year, you consolidated some positions. So there's one administrative assistant position. You'll notice if

[17397-134] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Correct. And so we're kind of delineating them out, having different direct reports as well, because I'm looking at this org chart and I'm curious about what our actual direct report structure is going to be as well.
TEXT> Yeah. So. When I talk to you separately about special education, I'm going to have a lot of bad news. And that probably doesn't come as a surprise.  But the first few things, through compliance items I've taken a look at haven't looked great. And I'm going to give you an example. Again, we're going to have a lot of hard conversations. Here we are. But the truth is the truth. And this is what we have to do.  So we use where you have a contract already. You had it before I got here with a special ed consultant who I think does a wonderful job.  She's been extremely helpful,  and she's been doing great work with folks at the Dow building before I got here. You have about 450, 460 IEPs in the district. So that's roughly a third of the students have IEPs, give or take.  I asked her just last week to start taking a look at how many of them had been renewed on time. That is, without a gap between expiration and approval. There is supposed to be no gap, right? We are supposed to have IEPs that before they expire are there are meetings. There's a there's a revision process, there's renewal. And then they say this is very important when we are claiming Medicaid reimbursement, because when an IEP is expired, we cannot. We cannot be reimbursed by the MTS Medicaid schools program, for example.  And there are other liabilities that come.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It was not 50%, but it was close to 50% of the first 54 she looked at that had had a gap in approval from a day to a few

[17397-136] Heather Whitney | School Board Member (Medicaid cost capture and the special-education b | 2026-06-03
PREV> Tim Broadrick: into compliance with federal law. And I think that's a full time job. I don't think there's any question that that's a full time job. It's also harder than it's ever been to hire people with the qualifications and experience to do those administrative jobs.
TEXT> So it sounds like there's cost capture as well that could be associated with segregating out these positions, because if we're not getting Medicare reimbursement for 50% of our kids during  how many months of window, then we could be having the mystery of why we're always overrunning our special education budget. That mystery is like, sounds like it's somewhat solved a little bit.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: We're going to have a conversation. Yes, yes. And we're going to have a conversation about spending on out of the district placements in which I've, I've taken a look

[17397-191] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Tim Broadrick: accountability for school districts. Careful what you wish for. This is an area where the department does not. You submit a school calendar, but they don't get back to you and give you an opinion on your school calendar at the beginning of the year.
TEXT> That only happens at the end when they calculate hours. And this is this is the gap in the regulation. We have this regulation that ostensibly requires 180 school days with students to be scheduled. If you schedule 178, nobody's ever going to say a word because you'll always have enough hours at that level. The trick here has been, and how does this happen? People aren't. People aren't bad, right? People do sometimes things that, in retrospect, look silly. One thing that children, parents, and teachers all agree on is nobody wants to be going to school in June, right? Parents are the first ones to complain. Typically when we have to make up snow days and I have to announce in a school district, hey, there are going to be three more school days in June. It's not the staff or the kids who complain allowed us, it's the parents who want to take the kids to the beach or go visit grandma. So there's this tension always, when can we be done?  We're going into a year where if we weren't starting before Labor Day and a lot of districts fell into a real problem with this, because there are a lot of districts where it's very important that the school boards in the community, that school never starts before labor.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: I don't know if you've looked at next year's calendar. Labor day is late, very late. So if we weren't starting in August, we'd be looking at school the the

[17397-193] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Tim Broadrick: it's in here. If you read between the lines, we need to give teachers a couple days that they don't normally have in Claremont before school starts to unpack their rooms, get set up at the high school. There's productive work that can be done.
TEXT> They're preparing for a visit. I there's no end of things that can be done that will be productive with the staff at the middle school, right. Particularly multi-tiered systems of support, behavior management and things like that. There will be plenty of work to be done that's productive, but it will end up that will come out of some student learning time. But if we end up with, let's say, 178 days on the calendar instead of what was going to be 100 and 72.5, we won't have to worry about structured learning time at the end, which is where the department does exercise oversight and hold districts accountable. That was too long. I'm sorry.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So if I may. So looking at the next year's schedule, see, there's a little bit of play seeing where where the calendar is going to fall. Do we have

[17397-244] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides, sets the agenda order, controls the floo | 2026-06-03
PREV> Don Lavalette: to reach out and see what we can do instead of saying if there are slots open, I, we, I want to put those schools out of business too. But I want to put it out because we are the place to come to school.
TEXT> I my comments are not to put anybody out of business. My comments are to make sure that our students in our school have the first right of refusal for those slots.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: I, I get that, but again, goes back to the earlier picture. Those are kids that we had until eighth grade. And then they decided instead of going to Stevens,

[17397-245] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (term to 2029; retired Claremont teacher, former S | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: I my comments are not to put anybody out of business. My comments are to make sure that our students in our school have the first right of refusal for those slots.
TEXT> I, I get that, but again, goes back to the earlier picture. Those are kids that we had until eighth grade. And then they decided instead of going to Stevens, they went down the street. So anything we can do to recapture those kids is a win, because if we were capture them, then who knows how many other kids we can recapture. So adding one student, I mean, we take kids from all over the area for regular high school classes, and I've yet to hear that discussion saying.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Only there are slots.

[17397-251] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: That's when they are.
TEXT> Questions. Claremont kids should be able to come to school.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: And we provide special ed services to them. And so whatever we can do, we should do.

[17397-263] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Special ed budget.
TEXT> It's yes. And there are so some of the work with the coordinators can be from grant funded, but some of it is locally funded. Okay. So that is our obligation for the students and the AP. Now it doesn't mean you could potentially have an IEP for a generic things. It's not a specific program where you might be in the summer camp, but it's the summer camp is access to everybody. Whereas the extended school year is only a limited group of students that really need this extra work over the summer. There's a variety of skills that students need to just maintain things that, you know, in different programs that are, you know, very specific.  So credit recovery at the high school is the third part, for those are students who have not yet passed a course. They've earned a or excuse me, a coverage eligible an re score.  So this allows students to prove the course competency. And then to earn the credit for this course, they have to be within so many points of actually passing this course. So if you're so, so far behind, this is not what it's going to be for its students that just need this extra boost to get that course recovery credit.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: You know, Mimi Ryan's and Doctor Harrington here ones, they could answer that. But that's a very small group of students as well that are eligible for this. They can't

[17397-273] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff member who administers credit recovery / sum | 2026-06-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: Days.
TEXT> Monday through Thursday. There's one staff prep day as well. So staff can come in, prepare for the kids.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And how many staff are involved.

[17397-283] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides, sets the agenda order, controls the floo | 2026-06-03
PREV> Mimi Rhines: Yeah. And then the last day will be August 6th which.
TEXT> So one of the questions that come up before is that there are 5 or 6 staff members. And, and that some of the students in this credit recovery,  completed in a day or 2 or 4 days. And yet the staff is there for six weeks.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: So what we did last year, we will do again this year is if you have no children, then just you don't come in that day. Like if you, if

[17397-284] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff member who administers credit recovery / sum | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: of the questions that come up before is that there are 5 or 6 staff members. And, and that some of the students in this credit recovery, completed in a day or 2 or 4 days. And yet the staff is there for six weeks.
TEXT> So what we did last year, we will do again this year is if you have no children, then just you don't come in that day. Like if you, if all the kids completed working, like if you have no kids left to a credit for, my guests are ready to say that you've completed summer school. I will say that sometimes you can come up with staffing. Sometimes people are out for various reasons, so other staff might cover those kids for that day. So they're the kids are supervised and worked with. So that has happened.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: And I think it's really, to look at it from a big picture, right? It's like, do you have some kids that will go in and finish that in a

[17397-311] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides, sets the agenda order, controls the floo | 2026-06-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: Percentage percentage of the people that are there. I would say it's sitting at like 95%. Like, it's very rare that you have someone that.
TEXT> Most of the kids who are enrolled.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Yes.

[17397-333] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (finance update, school lunch pr | 2026-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So I think what you're talking about is the Bluff School at a higher concentration of kids that fell in under that threat or at the threshold. And so because of that, that particular school got different pricing through federal and state.
TEXT> But the problem is, is, is when we get to when we when we disperse the kids throughout the district, it brings the poverty rate down in each of the schools and makes it so neither school is eligible for the program.
NEXT> Loren Howard: That was basically what I was asking. I wasn't sure how people were divided out and what it looked like, but thank you. Yeah.

[17397-399] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (credit recovery and vape detectors; AS | 2026-06-03
PREV> Matt Angell: So I can tell you what I know.
TEXT> About four years ago,  I believe through a Grant Stevens High School was  had vape detectors installed in most of their bathrooms. There's a few that they're not in.  I will tell you that they are incredibly valuable.  So basically,  and I'll give you, I'll give you the same spiel I give a lot of my students  because it's important to know. So what will happen is in my email, I'll get a,  an email that says vape detector warning. Okay. And then it'll tell you the concentration of vape that was in the bathroom. And all I have to do is I have to go on to it'll give me a time. I go into  my  camera and I go back and see who was in there at that time. Okay. Now, for me to search a student, I need to meet the standard of reasonable suspicion. Right. Which sits down to, you know,  I'm 51% in a feather. I'm pretty sure that something's going on.  Which is much lower standard that the police have to meet.  You know, so, I mean, I like all my students to know that when they're in the bathroom and that vape detector goes off, that standard is now met.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So I can go get them. I can ask them to come down to my office, and I can give them the whole spiel about the search. Many of the

[17397-456] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (term to 2029; retired Claremont teacher, former S | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: This falls under capital improvements.
TEXT> Well, I get that, but I don't want to get I don't want to get paralyzed by perfection and not get something done before the kids come back.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So know of a certain junior, soon to be senior that needs some community service hours, so I'm sure there is some other brilliance.

[17418-2] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-06-17
PREV> Unidentified: I pledge allegiance to the flag. Of the United States of America. And to the Republic for which it stands. One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
TEXT> Before we begin tonight.  I have a I. I'm really delighted to be able to,  have a special recognition.  I am delighted to have the officers of the Claremont  Stevens High School Alumni Association here. And on behalf of the Claremont community, we want to thank you for all the work you've done. This is our last meeting before the end of the fiscal year. And we wanted to take this opportunity. And so I'm going to  join me down there. And I think I'm supposed to I'm going to use a mic, I guess. What. Oh, thanks. So I just want to read this.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[17418-4] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-06-17
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Okay. It's to the Stevens High School Alumni Association on behalf of all of Claremont. The Claremont School Board recognizes and thanks the Stevens High School Alumni Association for its dedication to the community by stepping up this year and providing the services of accepting, raising and distributing donations from many for many of the important and often award winning activities that were part of the Claremont Schools this year. You willingly stepped up into that role that became much bigger and. More. Bald than any of you ever anticipated, and you carried on those responsibilities with grace throughout the whole year. The students, the parents, the teachers, the school administrators, and the Claremont School Board salute you for all of your all of your essential volunteer work that made this year's activities possible. Thank you. For you as well. And for you, Carolyn. And for you, Vic.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[17418-14] Carolyn (surname not stated) | Officer, Stevens High School Alumni Association - administered the don | 2026-06-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right by the podium. Because that way we can hear you and the people at home can hear you.
TEXT> I just want to say that Dick and the Association and all of us were extremely honored and proud that the people in Claremont would take their money and donate it to us and expect us to take care of those funds and take care of the students throughout the year. It means a lot to us, and I can tell you that there were no students. There were no events. There were no supplies that went negative. Everyone got what they needed all year long. And those students were very pleased. They were. I worked well with the teachers. They didn't give me a hard time. We worked together to get the supplies. I mean, it is hard. They do their own thing. Right, right. And then, you know, I can't reimburse you. We have to do an order. So I said, you do. The order on him is on. I'll come check it out and we'll authorize it, and we'll pay it through you. I'm not going to go and do their order all over again. Right. So we worked out a system and we worked well together. And if we had issues, Dick would go and talk to people. And we had no discrepancies. None whatsoever. Excellent. It's been an honor.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you. Carol. Thank you. Thank you very much. It's the lighting. It's delightful to start a meeting with such two positive ways that the community works together in support

[17418-42] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: support for that. And we just want to thank everybody for the scholarship sponsors. There was over $100,000 in scholarships that were given out on class night for our seniors, and this makes college possible for those who are, you know, moving on to college.
TEXT> And there's a variety of people, and it's always bittersweet because many of them are memorials.  And so we recognize the sponsorship for the families and things too, and so that they keep their spirit of their families living. And we appreciate that and giving back to our students. So we thank for everybody for the participation. With that just we made it past week. We had the last days of school. So we thank everybody the teachers, the pairs, custodians, administrators, students, families, community members, everybody. So we made it to the end. And in August we weren't sure we're going to make it. So it was a big accomplishment that we were able to get through for that.  Big shout out to the alumni association is always there. I mean, Saturday was the alumni parade. It was a fabulous turnout.  I think everybody had a great time. The weather cooperated with us, and it was just a beautiful day for this fabulous event and celebrating. This was my first parade to see,  but it was so nice to see all the communities show up and support everybody. And,  it was just a lovely community event. So I appreciate all the work that goes into that, and I know you probably need to rest soon, so your full time job is coming to hopefully a little bit of a pause there for you. So and all.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: All of you, I know they all did that. Yes, absolutely. Elise. Everybody. Carolyn. Everybody appreciate that. While they couldn't come tonight, we do want to just recognize Liliana Clark

[17418-43] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: just a lovely community event. So I appreciate all the work that goes into that, and I know you probably need to rest soon, so your full time job is coming to hopefully a little bit of a pause there for you. So and all.
TEXT> All of you, I know they all did that. Yes, absolutely. Elise. Everybody. Carolyn. Everybody appreciate that. While they couldn't come tonight, we do want to just recognize Liliana Clark and Michael Sheehan for all of their work on the board. We will have some juniors coming up to be seniors that we're sharing at one of the next board meetings, the students that are going to be nominated to be on the next board. But we appreciate all the work that they did and updates that they provided for us.  And it's always great to see our students in action and share what's happening.  And so just a few other things that we have. So I want to thank Paige Jarvis. She is moving on from the interim student services director position.  So she jumped into this role after just McCloud was helping step up. And we just want to appreciate and shout out to both of them  for all of their work. So in student services, we had a big void to fill in August and they both stepped up and to do that. So I really appreciate them and wish them well into their new roles coming up. So,  just a few follow up items.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So the exit interviews, the new round has gone out for staff. And so as soon as we get some more responses, we'll share those out. In July, we'll have

[17418-69] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/2026) | 2026-06-17
PREV> Tim Broadrick: in those budget lines. But these are not to exceed pay by the hour contracts with employees. Already in the last 24 hours, there's been a little rush of, oh, we might need more of this and less of that, and things will shift around.
TEXT> But, you know, staying knowing where the money is coming from is important, right? We can spend each dollar one time and sticking to, you know, sometimes you will go over a budget line, right? Something will happen and you'll need to overspend a line. That's okay. If you know you're doing it and know there's a line somewhere else you can spend. So I just wanted to give you that. Regarding the extended school year program,  which is again in progress, everything is in place. Ready to go in July, the credit recovery program at the high school. If you have specific questions about what happens in it, I know there's a more expert person than I hear about regarding the cost of credit recovery. Again, these are we don't know exactly how long every teacher is going to work, because every student needs are going to be a little bit different in New Hampshire.  We use standards based curricula, so we have curriculum standards approved by the State Board of Education. And a student earns credit in a class by demonstrated competency against the standards.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So I might have fallen short by a lot more of the work than Mr. Angel fell short when we both failed our history class. So he might go to

[17418-70] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/2026) | 2026-06-17
PREV> Tim Broadrick: every student needs are going to be a little bit different in New Hampshire. We use standards based curricula, so we have curriculum standards approved by the State Board of Education. And a student earns credit in a class by demonstrated competency against the standards.
TEXT> So I might have fallen short by a lot more of the work than Mr. Angel fell short when we both failed our history class. So he might go to summer school and demonstrate competency in two standards and be done in a week. And I might have to stay longer because I have more standards that I have to demonstrate competency or mastery of. And I know at least a couple of times I've heard questions about how this makes sense. Why is it that a student goes to summer school and they're not there for as long as somebody else, and how does that all work? So on the staff side, teachers have to work with the kids, figure out what do they need,  help them access that instruction or those resources so that they can demonstrate the knowledge and skill that they need to to earn credit. More importantly, consistent with the rest of this part of my report. How is it funded?  The federal title for a grant has an activity in the 2425 grant year, which is last year, which we are allowed to spend this year as well. That grant activity is approved by the Department of Education to fund this credit recovery program for up to a total of $58,661 over the two years combined.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So that's last summer and the upcoming program. Last summer's program cost a little over $19,000, which leaves about 39,000 available. More than enough. More than enough to do what

[17418-148] Don Lavalette | School Board member; Policy Subcommittee | 2026-06-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes, Don.
TEXT> I just have some and I don't necessarily need answers tonight. As a matter of fact, I probably won't be able to. So,  again, I was looking at the, the compensation package bottom of the page. So it says we have a study hall monitor listed in there. And so my question is where is that position located and why? We have a lot of employees listed as or they have coordinator in their title. Just from the citizens perspective. Perhaps we can flesh out and describe for the public what it is they coordinate. This one's a tough one for me to bring up. So I had a parent actually speak to me personally. The parent has two kids at the high school. The kids were upset. Of course, told their parents that a teacher actually was talking to them about the middle school.  Was probably going to close. And then they went on to describe other teachers that weren't coming back. And I'm going to hold off naming names, but I just want you to be aware that that was brought to me, and I promised a parent I would address it. And so I'm sure they're watching.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Madam Chair. May I say something about that? Okay. You know, I think if you reflect on. Your experience. Last fall, right. You had no ballpark. And I know that

[17418-151] Don Lavalette | School Board member; Policy Subcommittee | 2026-06-17
PREV> Tim Broadrick: possible, I will be trying to find a way to let you keep the status quo so that we can spend a year really talking to each other and planning for the future. Which doesn't mean there might not be more changes in the future.
TEXT> Yeah, no, I understand that. My concern is why are we putting adult problems in front of kids? Right? That's my agreement that we need to carry our own backpacks. The kids have their own things to worry about, and that's being a student and an athlete. So that that's do  that with what you will.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I would just like to insert here, now that I have been made aware of various rumors that have been going around the town about different meetings that the school

[17418-161] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Mr. Angel, we have a finance update.
TEXT> The first one. This one I'm really excited to to talk about is as we started up the burpee fund this year. And so in 1921. And Bergey gave the city. $32,000 to be used to maintain, their gravesites, her and her husband's gravesite. And then the remainder is going to be coming or comes to the school district to be paid to elementary and middle school students based upon their attend their attendance. And so what we've done is, is we've taken a census of the children.  And we've taken out the kids who are technically truant. And the remaining remaining kids,  were to split, $8,204. Okay. And so, through this process,  I was able to secure $2,002 bills and.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: $1,002 bills one month.

[17418-166] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Unidentified: Wow. Wow.
TEXT> So the poor principals had to put cash on the students. The poor cards.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[17418-244] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So student activity funds are where,  the students are raising money for student purposes.  What you're going to find in there would be if your student is going to go to a museum. A teacher will send out a form. Can you collect this amount of money? And then, that money is getting used for admission and then transportation. This goes into a separate bank account held by the building principal. Also in that fund would be a commission check from,  the. Yeah, the student photographer.  Also, there's going to be a commission check from Scholastic for the sale of books.  And usually that goes into the principal's account. Okay. And the principal then usually  buy jackets and shoes and snow pants and gloves for the students with those funds. But it's generally money raised by the students for the students. So, back in the fall,  the building principal for Bluff Elementary gave me all the records that he had for  the student activity funds, and unfortunately, it didn't contain,  the information  by grade level. So I'm going to assume that the balance that's in there is related to the principal's account.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Okay. Now, normally what I find in school districts is there's going to be a school board policy that talks about the closure of student activity funds. I couldn't find

[17418-363] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-06-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: I'm excited to look forward to July 1st. We shift over. We already got a lot working in place, so I'm excited to see the revitalization and bring it back to where Claremont was before and Claremont Educator strong. So thank you, I appreciate it.
TEXT> And this is our last meeting for the fiscal year. And I have to tell you, I was at graduation Thursday night. And I sat there and I kept thinking, oh my gosh, this is a miracle. These kids graduated and we made it through the year. I was, I was.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I kept.

[17418-365] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-06-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: I kept.
TEXT> Thinking it all evening long how grateful I was that we made it through the year and those kids graduated. So thank you. And and it is everybody. It's a miracle that we made it. So with that, I'd like to entertain a motion to adjourn. So thank. You.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[17566-5] Courtney Porter | Presenter of the staff recognition - introduced by the chair (004: 'Co | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Before we start tonight's meeting, or the first item on the agenda is a recognition. And I think Courtney Porter is going to lead us in this discussion and information.
TEXT> I just love this new tradition that you guys have of recognizing staff members. It warms my heart.  So tonight, I'm here to share with you about  Miss Jackie Hall, and she's here to talk about the high set. But I'm going to go a little off script, because I have known Mrs. Hall almost my entire life  as a student of Way School. Anyone who remembers way school. She was a fourth grade teacher. I've also known her as she helps to support the weekend food bags that we provide to our students. Last year, we had 88 families that were receiving a bag of food every single weekend.  So when I was asking Mrs. Hall about, tell me about where all this came from. She shared with me.  Here's a story about Trinity's mission to feed hungry children.  After teaching many years, I then became a school counselor. After 15 years as a counselor at the middle school, I transferred to the high school in 2001. Every morning there was a line of students waiting to get a late pass from Nancy Rosenzweig. I noticed that it was always the same students.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: I often asked them, what would take you to get here on time. They said, food. We're hungry. Hunger and pairs. Learning. The vestry at Trinity was discerning a mission.

[17566-6] Courtney Porter | Presenter of the staff recognition - introduced by the chair (004: 'Co | 2026-09-02
PREV> Courtney Porter: counselor. After 15 years as a counselor at the middle school, I transferred to the high school in 2001. Every morning there was a line of students waiting to get a late pass from Nancy Rosenzweig. I noticed that it was always the same students.
TEXT> I often asked them, what would take you to get here on time. They said, food. We're hungry.  Hunger and pairs. Learning. The vestry at  Trinity was discerning a mission. I told the vestry, kids are coming to school late because they're hungry. The vestry discerned their mission would be to feed hungry kids, and we provided a hot breakfast for them five days a week. Each week we had a different pair of cooks. We opened at 6 a.m. there were kids waiting for us in Broad Street Park. We noticed on Mondays there were a lot of very hungry kids.  The kids would talk to us and it became obvious that they didn't eat over the weekend.  That is when we started the weekend food bag program. We would try to fill the bags with food that the children could prepare themselves.  We asked the school nurses, counselors, and social workers let us know how many children are food insecure. We filled the bags with the same items each week and delivered the number of requested bags to each school. When the school district started providing breakfast, Trinity stopped the breakfast program because we wanted to be good neighbors and not compete with the school district.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: The students that came to our church would walk to school every day. The Weekend Food Bag program is completely sponsored by grants through Claremont Savings Bank. And that's her

[17566-13] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - calls the meeting to order (000), asks 'Noel' to  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Jacqueline 'Jackie' Hall: Claremont Adult High School. If they take the high set, they would get a certificate from the state that says that they have passed. They have they are considered a graduate. So that's the story. And. If you have questions, I could answer them maybe.
TEXT> Jackie, I'm delighted that you're sharing much of this information. I know you and I have talked a number of times over the past few years  your concern about adult education and what happened to it  when Doctor Broderick came on this summer? That was one of the first things he talked about was adulthood. And we need to have something here. And his report will talk about that later. But I'm sure you're happy to hear that. I know that you have been an advocate for helping these kids get their high set  credentials, and and it's so important for them in terms of employment.  It's it's really  and I know that you've done it for free. No one's been paying you for doing all this and for a long time. How long would you say you've been doing it?
NEXT> Jacqueline 'Jackie' Hall: You mean without pay?

[17566-72] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 - delivers the | 2026-09-02
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: to be able to come back in, meet with their teachers, go over their assignments, do a few activities to go along with your assignments, and then they get a chance to check in with their their teacher, their advisor and then really go through.
TEXT> It's still similar. It's not summer school also where it's like you come in from 8 to 3.  And so summer school is specifically that that's a program. It's designed specifically for a set number of students. These are individualized. And if you'd like more information about that, we can get some more specifics on the credit recovery numbers.  But for the Issi the question had been for the numbers. So the extended school year this past year,  this past summer, we had the K-1 students coming in. There were 17 students receiving their services. In the second and third grades. There were 11 students receiving their services. In fourth and fifth grade, there were 17 students  K-1 self-contained, which is a separate program. There were six students receiving their services  and then the Partner Visions program, again, very specialized instruction for those students. Those were 11 students at the middle school total. There were 11 students.  There were three who were specifically in their life skills, their special needs, self-contained program time.  And then the high school. There was also the students in there. So  again, those are minutes of service for their IPS, not a summer school program.  And just, you know, again for the credit recovery.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So one thing and I appreciate Doctor Harrington's feedback from the staff. It's a little bit trickier to go back into the summer for something that might have happened in

[17566-211] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - calls the meeting to order (000), asks 'Noel' to  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Tim Broadrick: after which we do somewhere around 4:00. So I think that might be a factor there. Look at also be certain days of the week, Saturday transportation is available for those kinds of things. But most of our athletic contests are going to be weeknights.
TEXT> So if there's a game on Saturday, it's not impacted. If there's a game at 3:00 or 4:00 in Fall Mountain, it will be impacted because we don't have any driver  that can get the kids there for a 4:00 team.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: 4 or 430 at Interlaken would be a great example. Yeah, probably no chance. Unless it's a weird day of the week when there's one substitute driver who's not a

[17566-274] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the finance and superintendent's repo | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: to pursue that. And so the follow on to that is this what's the process needed for us to add a vocational program? Do we have to coordinate or check out other that's other sites. And then I get a follow up to that. Yeah.
TEXT> So  I have a limited I have some understanding of this. So I'm happy to answer the question. But we might get to the limit of my understanding here.  The way it works in New Hampshire.  I feel like we're a little trapped in that. If a program exists at other tech centers to close for us,  the department won't approve it here,  that sometimes that might create opportunities. For example, if another tech center nearby had an lab program in health occupations and for some reason was unable to run it,  I would suggest we jump even when we have a lot of other important work to do to try to establish a program like that if the opportunity exists, because those of us in the vocational world know that there might not be a more valuable  program we can offer to kids that many students should be interested in, then something like a licensed nurse assistant program. But if they.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Know you've you've nailed what I was looking for.

[17566-277] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Tim Broadrick: If they have, oh, did I come up with the right example?
TEXT> Yes. You have a look at that. So so here's my here's my agitation.  Brian and I spoke long ago about bringing some emergency services into the  tech, and I was stunned to read that Newport now is offering an emergency services program in their tech center.  And so that tells me it's open season to just do what you want, because I can't imagine for a second that the Claremont School District said yay to something without going to the school board. So so we're going to send kids probably to Newport for vote  for something we could have offered here easily.   And so  that just irks me to no end. So if they don't need our permission, then it should be in our best interest to develop what we want to develop for our kids and move forward. Because obviously, there was no conversation that took place between Newport and Claremont that I'm aware of. Right? So  it's just it's not it's not a good thing. For years I was told that you had to coordinate with schools. Okay. Well where was the coordination there. And that's a program that we could have offered much. We have a bigger fire department.  Everything's here. So anyway, that's my education with that.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: And my my basic understanding of the situation stems from just a couple of days ago. I, I would like to have an automotive program. So I asked, other than

[17566-355] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: whether the hat is worn or not. That's that's number one. And so so is there a general consensus about hats? Number one. Does is there any concern? Is there anybody who has a passionate feel that hats should not be worn in school? Okay.
TEXT> Two  okay, I guess what I  would like to focus on is really what's the purpose of the dress code? And it's not simply to regulate the dress of kids and to impose like this top down imposition. It's to  set standards and help guide. And I think  especially in a district like ours where we have a lot of  kids in struggling environments that may not have, Standards set at home,  and we'll go into the world not  being accustomed to what certain professional standards would be and what expectations would be, and part of the dress code and and  the  handbook, which I really liked  when I read this, is that all students should consider work to school to be a work setting. It's really important. School is really important, and you should show up ready to work, and it should be taken very seriously and we should treat it. The board should treat it seriously, and I know the administration treats it seriously. But part of the imposing a dress code is saying that this is how we want our kids to feel in school. We want our desks clean, we want the the schools painted. We want pride in every everybody who walks through the door having an elevated sense of pride.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And also it should promote professional image. I think that we should be kind of that should be our guiding light when we're thinking about this dress code. It's not

[17566-357] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: bit or piece, you know, that's it. And like, how how do we make sure that doesn't happen and we just create some kind of general framework. And I am a little, you know, and I have to say I want no pajamas in school.
TEXT> I don't want just one piece of pajamas. I'm like, no pajamas in school. Nobody should wear pajamas to school.  And  slippers.  I mean, there are some slippers. I think we have to be  our clog kind of slippers. And then there's real slippers. And I honestly don't think you should be wearing slippers to school.  So that's my only  ask of the dress code. And of the policy is that we  we we think about it in the way we want our kids to view their  place in the school, and it should be  elevated.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's all.

[17566-383] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: Certainly makes sense.
TEXT> It is  as a benefit to the student  and. But otherwise, no.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: You're correct.

[17566-448] Dr. Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School - answers Lavalette's question to 'Doct | 2026-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: the obtaining credit, which I'm very in support of the 306 rule about being able to move forward and graduate early. Yes. How do we actually I'm just curious. How do we actually that how do we facilitate that? How early can a kid graduate.
TEXT> If I would respectfully say talk to Bill.  So I know I'm going to tell you. And the reason why I'm going to do that is and I think,  you know,  and this is the best story I have  on it.  Well, there's two  there was  a student by the name of  Willman who I enjoyed very much, who came in, and he struggled his first semester and didn't pass a class. And I think that in three years, really two and a half for him,  he graduated with the highest diploma that we have because  the administration and his father worked very closely together  and developed a plan for him to accelerate his learning, which consisted of classes in school and also online work.  And it is really individualized this year. What I've done with the school counselors is that we are instituting a new  practice, which has  a much needed boost to the planning of each student's coursework and where they want to tie it to, where they want to be,  and they can accelerate, you know, at their leisure. We have ability to do,  you know, relax classes, odyssey where classes, online learning and can accelerate through there.  We've also had extended learning opportunities  and we have a lot more flexibility. So really it depends on how hard that  your student wants to work or how hard you want to make your student work in some cases.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Also, I saw that at 30627 Z required that the school board have a policy that is relative to counting, achievement and demonstration of graduation competencies for coursework earned toward

[17566-460] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Loren Howard: No problem.
TEXT> And the credit recovery  do the teachers facilitate the in during the year kind of planning of getting the kids up above that 49.5 and 69.5 to keep them kind of out of the summer school program?
NEXT> Dr. Michael Herrington: Oh.

[17566-463] Dr. Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School - answers Lavalette's question to 'Doct | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: We.
TEXT> We try our best. Unfortunately, some of the executive functions of our students at this age aren't aren't really the best. We've got some phenomenal teachers that do a lot of communication home with teachers. What I have done over the summer is write a lot of procedures  to kind of facilitate this, and a practice that will be  that we've gone over in the  PD days that we've had so far, is that in a two week period, every advisor will sit down with every single student, go over their grades  and email their parents and any teacher whose  grade is not passing. So there will be a continued communication at least every two weeks from their advisor, and then added on to whatever teacher they have.  So that will be up to date.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: On page 13. We no longer redesignated students if they do not earn sufficient credits to move on to the next level. What does that mean and why did it

[17566-508] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the finance and superintendent's repo | 2026-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: For sure.
TEXT> A third of the kids in a school should be on some kind of an athletic team all the time.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Yes. Okay, so we have a motion on the floor to approve the handbook.

[17566-563] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: So let's discuss beyond the Comic Sans. Yes.
TEXT> So a couple of things man.  So in general the formatting and the direct siting of policy, there's just there's a lot to a lot to be reworking. But if this handbook is for athletes then let's put athletes handbook instead of athletics handbook.  Right.  And then I'm just going to go through my list.  So immediately after the table of contents is a listing of all sports by season. Yet there's no mention of unified sports. Why. Can't do that   under CMS and Stevens High School athletics. The second paragraph, if you want to read along, says activities are one of the. And then the second sentence says activities provide. I think they meant to put athletics in there because as it stands, it just really doesn't  any sense. Under requirements for participation. Item number two mentions competency in the quarter. Well  CMS doesn't use quarters. So we need to address that within that policy okay. Because that that will have an impact on students participation.   And again under academic probation. The last sentence in the first paragraph says when grades are reviewed quarterly, again, there's no mention of CMS does not do cause.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Under practice and game attendance, it makes reference to choose to participate in athletics at Stevens High. And so we need to include CMS in there and make sure that

[17566-570] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: I don't.
TEXT> Know,  under rules of conduct and training rules, it says activity. Participants must always remember that participation in activities is a privilege.  Do you mean athletics  under parties and cyber images? The second paragraph first sentence ends with of a violation of the code.  What code? Bro code. I don't and I don't mean to be smart alecky, but those are the questions that I'm just sitting there thinking about. And then it goes on to say we'll be disciplined as follows. And it just goes into nothing related to disciplined as follows. And so that needs to be reorganized.  And within that item, one first offense says counseled by the resource counselor. I  don't know if that's accurate. I don't believe it is  under three AI.  It says an appeals committee. What appeals committee? I'm on a school board and I have no idea. That is an appeals committee for that I. 14 under student assistant program.  What in whom my question what in whom or part of this program because it states must be attended by the student and the parent. And then it further mentions required to complete an educational program, what  what program and  what's who's on the student assistant program. And so how does that all happen?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Lord.

[17566-583] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: You sorry? I thought you were done.
TEXT> Again under student assistant. Program number two says the student must complete community service hours. And so my question would be that needs to be clarified to make sure it's equitable.  Right. So if I like Joe, he's the only going to have to do two. But Susan's going to have to do five because I don't really care for her attitude. So if you're going to put it into a document that we're going to approve, it needs to have some clarity in there. And then it mentions the I will contract, and it would be nice if I saw a copy of the I will contract because I have no clue what that means and who approved the I will contract. I'm  I support that that what it is. But  the third asterisks under student assistant program mentions bullying and then it goes on to say may result.  There's no way it should say may result should result. And it should mirror our bullying policy period.  It should be no  nothing.  Next one awarding of letters.  I  need more clarity other than determined by head coach.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: After consultation with the activities director. And again, because the word tradition is mentioned earlier, I would argue and the ad says something, the fact that it's impossible to put

[17566-614] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: school dress code for athletes for boys dress pants, no denim jeans, shirt and tie, or a turtleneck along with a suit, coat or sweater is acceptable for girls. Skirts, dresses or dress slacks no denim jeans along with a blouse or sweater are acceptable.
TEXT> Why I like to. I like this. My question is, does the school board approve this? And it's interesting that this has been a tradition that no one blinks an eye on yet. Think of all the time we've invested just talking about school dress code and sitting within our one of our documents is a is a dress code. So I just take that for what you what you want. It just it didn't make sense to me that we have that I get the idea I support it. But  under transportation to a non playing event, the last Senate says many times this transportation costs must come from student activity funds.  So to me that was a red flag that that needs to go away  under publicity and media. Item one the last sentence needs a couple of items omitted. It still has the Eagle Times and Oetker News. Yeah  under substance Abuse item one.  And this is my notes. I wonder if vaping should be included. And again, like other parts only see Stevens is mentioned, not CMS. Maybe use Claremont Athletics. Something of that sort  under fundraising. I wonder if the entire section needs to be  changed in scrubs because it talks about student activity accounts, fundraising approved by the ad.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: I thought we moved away from that, so that came to mind under teams individuals staying overnight. Item one itinerary approved by Addie. And this. This worries me because the

[17566-752] Loren Howard | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee Chair) - answers the chair's  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: Opposed? Nay. Okay. So first read is accepted. Okay. Go ahead.
TEXT> And then lastly we had done a revision for J. I  see which I'm going to talk about. But I don't think we should  make a motion on tonight because that's when I really wish that would have been online for people to see first. But nonetheless, we just clarified our metal detector policy  and put it put language pointing to JH  about student searches. So  now I think I'm going to make a motion to approve or sorry, I'm going to make a motion to move  the revisions of JKA and GBA to second.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Read second. Okay.

[17575-4] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - reads his handbook critiqu | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. So let's discuss beyond the Comic Sans. Yes.
TEXT> So a couple of things, man. So in general, the formatting and the direct siting of policy is just there's a lot to lot to be reworking. But if this handbook is for athletes, then let's put athletes handbook instead of athletics handbook. Right.  And then I'm just going to go through my list. So immediately after table of contents is a listing of all sports by season. Yet there's no mention of unified sports. Why. Can't do that?  Under CMS and Stevens High School athletics. The second paragraph, if you want to read along, says activities are one of the. And then the second sentence says activities provide. I think they meant to put athletics in there because as it stands, it just really doesn't any sense.  Under requirements for participation, item number two mentions competency in the quarter. Well  CMS doesn't use quarters. So we need to address that within that policy okay. Because that that will have an impact on students participation.  And again under academic probation, the last sentence in the first paragraph says when grades are reviewed quarterly, again, there's no mention of CMS does not do cause under practice and game attendance, it makes reference to choose to participate in athletics at Stevens High.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: And so we need to include CMS in there and make sure that there are no further exclusions to that. Next one was under the athletic department specific objectives. Number

[17575-7] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - reads his handbook critiqu | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: wait. Room is an important facilities. Well, we don't need a plural there. And again, I'm not trying to tear this apart, but if it's going to have Claremont's name on it, we ought to do our damnedest to make sure it's coherent and right.
TEXT> Next one under warning and safety equipment in all caps. If you want to follow along. It says, by its nature, comma activities, comma include no idea what that was was was I don't know. Under rules of conduct and training rules. It says activity participants must always remember that participation in activities is a privilege. Do you mean athletics under parties and cyber images? The second paragraph, first sentence ends with of a violation of the code. What code? Bro? Code. I don't, and I don't mean to be smart aleck, but those are the questions that I'm just sitting there thinking about.  And then it goes on to say we'll be disciplined as follows. And it just goes into nothing related to disciplined as follows. And so that needs to be reorganized. And within that item, one first offense says counseled by the resource counselor. I, I don't know if that's accurate. I don't believe it is under 3AI  it says an appeals committee. What appeals committee? I'm on a school board and I have no idea. That is an appeals committee for that. I. 14 under student assistant program. What and whom? My question what in whom or part of this program because it states must be attended by the student and the parent. And then it further mentions required to complete an educational program. What what program and what's who's on the student assistant program. And so how does that all happen?
NEXT> Loren Howard: Lord, I'm going to withdraw my motion. I think I think these are great notes that should really be sent to them and really corrected. I think the the one

[17575-16] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - reads his handbook critiqu | 2026-09-02
PREV> Loren Howard: Sorry. I thought you were done.
TEXT> Again under student assistant program number two says the student must complete community service hours. And so my question would be that needs to be clarified to make sure it's equitable. Right. So if I like Joe, he's the only going to have to do two. But Susan's going to have to do five because I don't really care for her attitude. So if you're going to put it into a document that we're going to approve, it needs to have some clarity in there. And then it mentions the I will contract. And it would be nice if I saw a copy of the I will contract because I have no clue what that means. And who approved the I will contract. I, I, I support that that what it is. But,  the third asterisks under student assistant program mentions bullying and then it goes on to say may result. There's no way it should say may result should result. And it should mirror our bullying policy period. There should be no nothing. Next one awarding of letters. I need more clarity other than determined by head coach.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: After consultation with the activities director. And again, because the word tradition is mentioned earlier, I would argue and the adds says something. The fact that it's impossible to put

[17575-53] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - reads his handbook critiqu | 2026-09-02
PREV> Loren Howard: Yeah.
TEXT> Under substance abuse item one I and this is my notes. I wonder if vaping should be included. And again like other parts only see  Stevens is mentioned not CMS. Maybe use Claremont Athletics something of that sort under fundraising. I wonder if the entire section needs to be changed in scrubs because it talks about student activity accounts, fundraising approved by the ad. I thought we moved away from that. So that came to mind under teams individuals staying overnight. Item one itinerary approved by a D. And this. This worries me because the school board approves off campus trips, taking kids just on to Boston, and there's nothing in here that the school board has to approve an overnight trip that I just didn't. Worries me that,  under thunder and lightning,  it's talked about earlier in the document, and it's. So it's a repeat offender here. Next one under school rules. Rules item one, next to the last sentence, it says the athlete will be required to sit out contest meets upon returning from the trip. And this whole section, if you really read it closely comes across as district policy.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: And I found no reference to it in our policies. And I bring that up because in other sections of the document where they talk about hazing, the school board

[17594-132] Michelle Herrington | Principal, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identif | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: I think this is terrific. And and it's because you were so astute and aware of the and and acted immediately. And and thanks to the Department of Education for their cooperation and quick response. Yep. Also, will the students from Newport becoming here?
TEXT> Yes. So we have one student right now coming. They're actually taking two programs. They thought they wanted to take the program, and then they wanted to see if there was opening in culinary. We had one opening left in culinary. So now they spend half the day over here. So they're in college because I opened it up to that level two time frame. So they're here for culinary one and then in level two medical assisting. But it's only a level. It's a level one class. But during that time. So and then can I so Julia Kelly is a amazing resource that she's a teacher and she's actually working with the trainers as well.  To go to all the sports games so the kids learn to tape ankles and be a part of it, because the trainer was kind of inundated with having to wrap so many ankles that they weren't getting it done. So our business class made embroidered backpacks so they'll have scrubs, they'll have the gear when they go to the game. They'll know how to  how to wrap the ankles. And they already signed up for the next three weeks. And they'll get community service hours for it. And it's kind of an incentive. Like if you work,  I forget like five games, you're going to get a sweatshirt.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: If you work seven games, you'll get like a jacket. So it's kind of just instead of just giving everybody everything they work towards it. And then during basketball season

[17594-134] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - opens the meeting, runs the agenda; addressed as  | 2026-09-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: then during basketball season they might get a nice polo. So she's been hitting the ground running. I feel like all the new staff here are just so excited like I am. And we have a fantastic team that's going to do some great things.
TEXT> It gives those it gives the community,  awareness of the, of our students also. And as they go to those sporting events and see,  the, the logos and see the kids in action. I think that's great. Will we be able to get any of the equipment from Newport?
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: We are working on that. Yes.

[17594-149] Michelle Herrington | Principal, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identif | 2026-09-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: and now they're working on projects that they want to do. So that's machine tool. Every single program we've we've worked really hard to build enrollment, but I just don't want numbers at the tech center. I want the right students in the right programs.
TEXT> Because if you don't, you have a great intro class. Nobody's taking the level one class. If you just fill the class with kids that don't want to be there.  So in level one or an intro classes, if they sign up for a level one class, we do an interview process with them.  Me and the teacher go in and we explain what makes it. What is a level one program? Are you committed to the two year program? We look at their grades. We look at their schedule to make sure that they are able to do this. So that's really helped with enrollment. And  so if you look at every single program has had an increase in the last three years, and then in quarter two, we're still in negotiations with  and hiring another teacher to do exploratory CTE. So this teacher will be teaching seventh and eighth grade, and they will try to incorporate all five of the programs except for machine tool, because they're going to get that in 22 days. So the kids will come in and just get a little taste of every single program that we have here so that they can when they pick their classes for high school, they know what plumbing actually is, not just what they think plumbing is, because it's completely different.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: If you ask a seventh grader what plumbing is, it's not what they actually do. So so if you if you add the students that we're going to start for

[17594-247] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - recognized 'Don.' (022, 31 | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. Moving along. Yes, Don.
TEXT> I just have a couple things for the superintendent. Sure. So I took the liberty of looking at the Naia website, and I just want to pass along a few ideas. And before I do that, I'm just. I'm of the nature that if you offer it, I think they'll come out and try it. And if you don't, you'll never know. So that being said, I printed off some things for for Doctor Broderick, and he's probably aware of this, but I didn't realize that bass fishing is actually an NHA sport. And looking around us, Fall Mountain has a team. Kearsarge has a team. Keene, Lebanon and Newport. Prospect Mountains on here, too, for whatever reason. Boys and girls, cross country. And there's a there's a reason why I chose these. Here's another one. I was surprised that. And I know if my son was still in high school, he would have gone for this coed esports sanctioned by the NH, a, unified sports. We could probably be offering soccer,  if we chose to do that. And wrestling and of course, our neighbors just to the east,  have a pretty good team. And I chose all these because they, they don't require a lot of money to get started. They just don't.  So I know I'm just one of seven, but, boy, I'd be interested in having the a, D and superintendent pursue these opportunities for our kids. I just we're missing the devote. Pun intended. Yeah,
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It's..

[17594-326] Brian Rapp | School Board member (Capital Improvement Subcommittee) - the chair cal | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: In which one is. This.
TEXT> JC a okay.  The use of force by a person to defend himself or herself or a third person from what the actor reasonably believes to be imminent use of force by or  unlawful force by a child. When the actor uses a degree of such force which he or C reasonably believes to be necessary for such purpose and the act. This is what I don't understand, and the actor does not immobilize a child or restrict the freedom of movement of the torso, head, arms, or legs of any child. So it's saying you can protect yourself or another kid, as long as you don't restrict the move of the kid's arm that's doing it, it doesn't make sense, right?
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Well, essentially what practical terms? That you can't put a kid in a headlock, that.

[17594-347] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School - the draft minutes name her ('Me | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: Thank you. I owe you big. I think.
TEXT> Again, different age groups.  Different strategies. Right. Doctor Harrington at the high school versus me with a kindergartner. Very different. Right? I mean, I think the gist of it is we don't want anyone putting their hands on children if it's not necessary. That's the bottom line  and the way it should be  any. You know, we do have staff trained in a physical management technique. If the if the need arises and that's the threshold for that is pretty high. It's if the student is a danger to themselves or others  and, and the, the  sense of danger has to be pretty high. Not just that a little five year old might kick me. That's that's not that's not a high threshold for danger. If a child is coming at you with a pair of scissors. Right. There's a higher threshold of danger there. If it's an 18 year old in the high school taking a swing.  That's a very different threshold as well. So I mean, my. And I think that's why we we suggested it go to the attorney was because it is a it's it is a pretty sensitive subject. And you know, the central messages don't put your hands on kids if you don't need to. And the need for the need to put your hands on children needs to be incredibly high.  And after many de-escalation attempts have been made.  I don't know if that helps or.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you.

[17594-392] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - opens the meeting, runs the agenda; addressed as  | 2026-09-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Well, we just were very good during the finance meeting. We were we really felt was super important to have the board involved and and preemptively.
TEXT> We want to act on behalf of the.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: 400%.

[17594-403] Brian Rapp | School Board member (Capital Improvement Subcommittee) - the chair cal | 2026-09-16
PREV> Tim Broadrick: how the installer wasn't available. Earlier this week, I picked up the phone. I called the company that sold them to the district, and I said, come pick them up. And an hour later I got a call and they will be installed next Wednesday.
TEXT> Excellent. One other thing.  This is related to athletics. So Athletics Facebook page. I used to be pretty, pretty robust. A lot of a lot of lot of photos of of different events.  It's pretty much non-existent.  Since the season started, there have been  a couple of posts about  girls soccer. Girls soccer. August 28th. August 31st. First, there was a post about a bunch of different upcoming games. And then there hasn't been anything for the month of September except for, Last night there was a post about the girls soccer team. So we have a lot of athletes that are doing great things.  Some recognition to that, to their hard work. It used to be pretty ongoing and as you said, robust. I'm just wondering what's going on. Why? Why aren't we supporting these kids like we used to?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: I've had personally strong opinions about this kind of thing for a very long time. I wrote an electronic communication and social media guide for a school district ten years

[17594-407] Brian Rapp | School Board member (Capital Improvement Subcommittee) - the chair cal | 2026-09-16
PREV> Don Lavalette: That.
TEXT> Our athletic director controls that one. There are  other people posting on behalf of themselves. They take photos at games and that's great and we like that. But again, the district page seems dead.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Well, I think I, I your point about equity, you use the word, but that's the word I took from this as well. Taken. Mr. Lovell talked earlier about, you

[7313-3] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: science out. Those are considered middle school classes. And so we've taken them out of our course of studies. I'd also like to point out we have three new classes in here that have gone through the Curriculum Council. We have in. Science on page.
TEXT> 21. We're happy to offer a forensic science course and  very excited about that. We feel that that'll be something that'll have a high sign up rate from our students, and that'll be taught  by one of our new teachers, Robin. And  if you go to digital technology on page 26, you'll see at the top digital art and design and at the bottom multimedia arts and design. And those will be co-taught with our computer teacher as well as our art teacher. And students can elect which credit they get for that, whether it's a computer  credit or a an  art credit. And so the idea being that they will get the computer side of that on an a day and the art side of that on a B day, and that kind of collaboration between teachers is, is what's really exciting to see  as a, as a principal, where teachers are starting to have those conversations and getting really excited about creating these new courses that are are geared towards our students interests and making them very competitive as they leave us.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Speaking to to the issue around physical education and dance class. And I, I totally agree with with comments about the need to not just maintain a status quo, but

[7313-4] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: is what's really exciting to see as a, as a principal, where teachers are starting to have those conversations and getting really excited about creating these new courses that are are geared towards our students interests and making them very competitive as they leave us.
TEXT> Speaking to to the issue around  physical education and dance class. And  I, I totally agree with with comments about the need to not just maintain a status quo, but increase our students physical education opportunities. There's there's no doubt in my mind, I right before coming to this meeting, I was at an alumni meeting  with Aaron House, our athletic director, and Brad Eaton, our fitness coach, talking to the alumni about the importance of the fitness and weight room and an aerobics room at Stevens High School and the need that that's not just for our athletes, it's for all our students. And so we're,  you know, being charged with the need to cut the budget and find ways in which to save. But looking at ways in which we are providing those,  activities in different venues by different people trying to look at out of the box opportunities for bringing those kinds of things into the school and giving students what they need, but not necessarily within the confines of a traditional PE class. And so we're feeling confident that we're going to be able to do those things for our students and continue to increase those opportunities we are offering. You'll see under the performing arts, a dance choreography class, which would be taught by Miss Cahill, who has her  bachelor's in theater arts and has a background in this. Is she a PE teacher?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: No, she's not, but we did feel that it was important that currently we're sending our students out of the school and and the to a a class that is

[7313-5] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: students and continue to increase those opportunities we are offering. You'll see under the performing arts, a dance choreography class, which would be taught by Miss Cahill, who has her bachelor's in theater arts and has a background in this. Is she a PE teacher?
TEXT> No, she's not,  but we did feel that it was important that currently we're sending our students out of the school  and and the to a  a class that is not being taught by Stevens High School teachers. Excellent program, excellent opportunity.  The the studio has done wonderful things with our students. Again, it was where could we look for cost savings, bring things in-house, and start to look at different ways to provide that curriculum to our students. So and please pay no attention to the last pages,  41 to 43. Those are placeholders. Those are not representative of the  course directory that's in here. But we will people those lines with the Stevens High School courses once this is approved by the board and will put page numbers. So  this does not represent currently what's in the program of studies.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: Can I just ask a couple questions.

[7313-24] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Becky' [127], [250], [599 | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: Exactly.
TEXT> Okay. Then I have another question that has to do with the budget. And this paper, if you look at the top of page ten where it says Library Media Center on the budget, it says that we're going to get rid of the library of media para. So you're telling me that one person is going to be able to do all of these things? That's very concerning to me, because I understand that the the person in the library is there to meet the needs of the students, but I don't know how that person can be two places at once when they're also providing resources to classroom teachers. I know that when any kind of,  media goes out of the library and it doesn't work in the classroom, that that media specialist is asked to go in that classroom and to help get things going. So who's going to be in the library with the students? And so I'm just really concerned about this idea that we're not going to have a parent in the library, because that is a very important part of the school. And when kids leave the high school and go to college, they spend a lot of time in the library studying and doing things. And I believe that there needs to be a para in that library media center. In order to meet this criteria that you have put here.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: You're absolutely right. This was written by Jane prior to the budget as it currently stands. So this is this is her expectation with a para. Should the para position

[7313-43] John | Claremont School Board member (first name 'John' per chair [52], [566] | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: for that, that special student, under those special circumstances that has shown that they have the curriculum, they've met the competencies, they've they've done the work they don't fit into into the other categories to give them that option, to get a diploma from Stevens.
TEXT> And just as a follow up in other school districts, if we didn't have block scheduling and we had period scheduling and we actually moved, lowered our,  credit requirements, but not our rigor requirements, but the credit requirements lower towards the state. It seems like we could offer,  we could offer the taxpayers of savings in, in potentially bodies that would take to instruct. And I've asked this numerous times, as I've been on the board along quite a while, is if we have any of our students getting a 27% or 27 credit diploma, which is actually five more than state requires. That's a lot of blocks of teaching. And I'm not saying to lower the rigor for English in math and science and things like that, but you're you're showing us here for diplomas where you can meet the requirements and you're holding the rigor the same.
NEXT> John: And is it possible to change some of these electives into, what do they call them, a clubs after school where some of them really are themed? I'm just I'm

[7313-48] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: or whatever it is and, and spends the next four years in the theater and then finds gainful employment in that it will have been worth it if one child gets that spark in that interest because of a class that they took at Stevens.
TEXT> So, you know, we could reduce it. Obviously, that's that's the board's choice. I think it would be ill advised. This this is this is a solid educational experience for our kids. And it's going to there's, there's it's difficult not to find something you'll be passionate about as a student in four years in this program of studies.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Must be cooling off. Sort of a few different ones, if I could. The, and I, I almost hate to open up this one, but there is reference in here

[7313-52] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator (named 'Corey LeClaire' by the superintendent [180 | 2015-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: four and passed away? Whatever the next one is, is we still just haven't brought this to a closure and a clarity, I think that allows us to fully explain and communicate the good stuff that's gone on. You're going to wait into it to.
TEXT> So  almost a year ago you heard from a and and a lot has happened since then, although it hasn't  come to any finality in front of the board, there's been a significant amount of progress made around our our current reporting system of student achievement. There was a steering committee formed shortly after that February meeting.  We conducted surveys of staff, of parents, of students related to the grading system as it was implemented at the time, and  basically conducted an audit of that entire system. That steering committee continued  their work. They they shared their recommendations with this board back in June of 2014 and has has continued their work this fall. At this moment in time, we have a draft of a reporting student achievement document. It has been developed by teams from each grade,  span. So an elementary team, a middle school team and a high school team from the saw, not just Claremont School District, but across the south is is now,  under review by the steering committee. And we met before  our last board meeting last week. I think it was,  we got through a good portion of the document in terms of conversation and discussion, pretty much through the elementary portion and most of the middle school portion. I'm looking at the three people who were in the room with me at the time.  We needed to continue the discussion.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we have a meeting scheduled for next Wednesday to continue that discussion around the high school section. But in that document, you you will see that the answers to

[7313-95] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: now that we have these this flex time hopefully built into next year's schedule, that once a week we would have a school meeting, a school community meeting in the gym and or by class, maybe freshman sophomore in the auditorium and then junior senior.
TEXT> And we sit and it's face time. It's not over the intercom when a bunch of stuff is going on for, you know, 2 or 3 minutes in the morning, it's principal, administration, guidance counselors and the kids in the seats. And we all talk to them about those kinds of opportunities. What's going at Stevens this this week? What are the things that are out there for you for community service? And it's a weekly community meeting.  So those are some of the things that I hope will help that inner culture, but also that communication piece.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We're also coming into presidential election time shortly, and we know they love to come to Claremont. So it's a great opportunity. We talk civics with Richard, but you just

[7313-100] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: with development within the city. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Sorry I got a little long winded here, folks. I appreciate that. It's on here as an action item. The program of studies was tonight informative or is tonight requiring an action? We up against a deadline?
TEXT> Well, we are in the sense that it needs to go to the printer and we need to start scheduling. However,  there have been some important there's been some important feedback to me this evening around. Clearly, I wouldn't want you voting on something that isn't fixed with, especially in the diploma requirements, so  I can make those changes there. Still, like I said, until we have the grading information that will be left blank, but for the purpose of getting it into the hands of our students and our guidance counselors, I can make those changes and then get it out to the board electronically within the next day or so. If you want to do that.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Well, we have another board meeting on the fourth. It happens to be early in February, which is sort of nice. Can it wait till the fourth for a final

[7313-128] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator (named 'Corey LeClaire' by the superintendent [180 | 2015-01-21
PREV> Bob: So how many of them? Families at the town of Charlestown actually have? Infants? Are preschoolers at the center?
TEXT> All of the child's town families have children in the center.
NEXT> Bob: Yeah, I understand that. But how many kiddos. Yes.

